Chapter 3 : Midnight

{b}Location{/b} Hawopt Grove, Red Blade - White Wand Border  {br}{b}Time{/b} Night Sleep 7900 hours (16 hours before dawn) {br}


He caught glimpses of night wolves, and other night life as he made his circuit, making his way through the Net Trees, the Web Trees, Lure Spike brushes, and dead looking day trees or sleeping day life. However the night creatures kept their distance. Now and again he came across abandoned Artificia. They were the only thing besides day life and day trees that could survive the light of the burning sun.

After a few circuits he made his way back into the camp. Most people had woken up and were loading the sleeping mats and the serving tables onto the wagons.

Zav was back up on his shard mount looking fresher than most of the Greens who were looking blurry eyed. 

Pophur climbed aboard the lead shard crab wagon, and the caravan started forward. Zav rode over to him.

"We be heading towards the abandoned White Wand Village of the Lonely Sceptre. No one be living there in since anyone knowing. However it be providing us with water, and protection from the sun. The heading be North-west and you will be finding the village marked on the map I have been giving you," instructed Zav,


"As before, you will be scouting the left and I will be scouting the right. You be breaking your fast in a few hours at first meal. We will be eating on the move as we been doing last sleep-cycle." Zav continued.

Kin nodded and piped Ka to the left. As before, the day life stayed dormant and the night life kept its distance. Kin kept boredom at bay by practicing his archery against the Net Trees. He was careful to retrieve all his arrows.

Kin picked a different wagon to breakfast in this time. After leaping onto the wagon Kin piped instructions to Ka then introduced himself.

The wagon was driven by more cousins of Vaskia and Tomon. This time by a couple called Stadef and Favia . They shared a breakfast of mana bread, red fruit, and round nuts wrapped in Net Tree leaves with him. 

Kin said farewell to Stadef and Favia and resumed his scouting. It did not take long for the combination of a full stomach, and lack of sleep to start him nodding. Zav waved him over, and told him to take a nap in one of the wagons for a couple of hours. Kin picked a different wagon again. As he leapt onto the wagon the drivers tried to wave him off.

"This wagon is already more than full," complained the female Green. The other Green tapped her and pointed to the back of the wagon. Kin looked back to where he was pointing and saw the slave girl sitting up from where she had been lying on some sleeping mats that were in turn on top of some bales of fiber tree wool.

"Sister says you are welcome to sleep next to her” he said interpreting the slave’s hand talk. “My name is Hufur, and my wife is Dalia." Hufur then helped him up to the back of the wagon much to his wife’s displeasure.

“I know you, don’t I?” asked Kin.

She nodded.

“How come I don’t remember?”

She placed her hand slightly above the mats.

“I was small.”

She nodded.

“How old was I?”

She held up nine fingers.

“9 hundred-days old. Hold on! That was when I was kidnapped by the Reborn. Were you kidnapped too? Was that how we met?” Eleven hundred-days ago, he and his cache mates were out in the night being shown how to collect mana. They were surprised by reborn warriors, their teachers were slaughtered, and Kin and his friends disappeared for more than a hundred-day. They turned up almost a cycle latter accompanied by a collection of children from all five tribes.

She nodded.

“I need to be able to talk to you. Will you teach me hand talk?”


She nodded then raised her index finger then placed her hands together and placed her head upon them.

“You will teach me but first you need to sleep.”

She shook her head then pointed at him.


“You will teach me but first I need to sleep?”


She nodded.

“Alright, but we will talk when I awake.”

With the gentile rocking of the shard crabs he fell asleep quickly and began to dream.


++++++

{b}Location{/b} wilderness, White Wand Territory {br}
{b}Time{/b} 11 Hundred Days Previous {br}

“Kin, you need to sing,” urged Rath.

“I can’t sing.”

“I know you can sing. I have heard you in the back tunnels when you thought no one was listening.”

“Father Urg told me that if he caught me singing one more time he would rip out my tongue, and make me into a slave,” Kin said.

They had been marching for days. Each time a war band returned to the caravan it brought new captive children. So far there were 18 Reds, 9 Whites and 6 Blues.

“Father Urg is not here and I will swear a blood oath that no-one will learn that you ever sung and I will make everyone else swear too,” Rath said. ” You know what will happen if the Reborn take us back to their nest? You have heard the stories?” 


“They kill your soul and some evil dead person takes over your body.”

“Close enough. You don’t want that to happen do you?”

“No!” Kin said reluctantly. “What song do you want me to sing?”

“The song of justice. But you need to wait until there are a lot of war Artificia around us.”

“The song of justice is the taboo of the taboo. Father Urg is going to kill me for sure.”

“Father Urg won’t know about it,” Rath said.

Kin looked sceptical. “I will think about it,” he said cautiously.

++++++
{b}Location{/b} near Lost Souls, Battleground {br}
{b}Time{/b} 11 Hundred Days Previous {br}

“This must be the legendary Battleground,” said Rath. Looking at awe at the giant white and red war Artificia locked in battle with each other.


“Won’t they be broken? With all the fighting?”

“No! The stories say that the singers broke before the Artificia,” Rath said. “Sing the song of justice and command the war Artificia to attack the guards.”

Kin felt the rise of panic. He had never killed anyone ,and he knew that Rath was asking him to kill the guards. He had also never knowingly sung in front of people. Suddenly he felt as if everyone was looking at him. His lips felt dry and his heartbeat grew loud in his ears. He was about to burst into tears, and confess to Rath that he could not do it then he heard singing. It was like the song of justice but different. All the white war machines seemed to respond. Two of them disentangled themselves from the frozen melee, and launched themselves at the reborn warriors who were acting as guards, killing them.

Turning around Kin saw the singer.  It was a White Wand girl only slightly older than he was. With horror he saw a reborn warrior galloping on his shard mount toward the singer with spear upraised. He sang. He sang like he never sung before. The red war Artificia responded. One of them launched itself onto the charging guard, and with a quick flick of a red crystal claw the warriors head went flying in a different direction from the rest of his body.

Just as he killed his second guard there was a third singing voice, hesitant and awkward. The female voice tried to copy his song. He spotted the new singer and it was a Blue Wave girl older than he was, but younger than the first singer. There were no blue war Artificia near, so instead of singing the Blue song of justice familiar to her she was trying to copy his Red song of justice.

Rath pushed Kin roughly aside as a thrown spear nearly skewered both of them. 

“Protect the singers, protect the singers at all cost,” yelled Rath. Although how a gaggle of children could protect anything from grown warriors was unclear. 

The white Artificia stopped moving as the White Wand girl’s voice fell silent. In alarm, Kin saw that she was on the ground an arrow projecting from her back. A giant white war Artificia arched over her protecting her from further arrows. The Blue Wave girl struggled to switch from Red song of justice to White in order to cover the gap left by fall of the White Wand. Kin killed his fifth and sixth guard in a rage. He spun as he heard the approaching gallop of one of the few surviving guards. Pas stood in-between Kin and the warrior, obviously taking Rath’s command to protect the singers seriously. However Pas was not even going to slow the warrior down. Desperately Kin searched for a Red Archificia but there none close enough. He tried the White song but he stumbled over the notes, and could not get the White Artificia to follow his commands. There was a burst of clear song from behind him and a White Artificia burst from underneath the charging warrior flipping the warrior’s shard mount over and crushing him underneath it. The White Wand girl was sitting up and singing despite the arrow in her back.

The Blue Wave girl was knocked down by the last reborn warrior but before he could finish her, somehow Jep had managed to jump on the Reborn’s shard mount and tackle him from behind. Jep was thrown off almost immediately but he had delayed the warrior long enough that the Blue girl had a chance to stagger to her feet. Blood pouring down her face she opened her mouth and sang, a crystal claw from a half buried war Archificia killed the warrior and it was over. Mana started falling. Kin reached out and grabbed some of the floating white flakes. They tasted fluffy and neutral.

++++++

{b}Location{/b} wilderness,  White Wand Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Pre-Dawn 900 hours (6 hours before dawn) {br}

“Kin, sleepy-head wake up. You cannot be expecting me to do both our jobs forever,” yelled Zav.

Mana was falling. He reached out and grabbed some of the floating white flakes. They tasted creamy and bland.

Illia was snuggled up behind him just like when they were children. However many things had changed since then and two of those things were pressing against his back feeling delightful. There were mana flakes in her hair, in his hair as well he guessed.