Chapter 2 : Cooling

{b}Location{/b} Bloody Claw, Red Blade Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Dusk 6500 hours {br}

Kin awoke to the sounds of flutes. He tumbled out of his hammock and pulled on a clean breechclout. With practiced economy he unslung the hammock, then collected and packed his gear, lugging it from the alcove to where Ka was stabled.

The wagon trays were up on stilts, and the Greens were piping the shard crabs back underneath the trays. One by one the shard crabs straightened up underneath their trays, taking the weight off the stilts. The Greens detached the silts and loaded them into the trays. They then started loading bales of fiber tree wool, rolls of net cloth, mana bricks, barrels of sweet sap, and smaller barrels of sweet sap rum, caskets of mana beer, and many other trade goods. He also saw six shard hunters being loaded into the wagon, which puzzled him as they were difficult to control with just a flute.

Kin saddled up Ka and stowed his gear in Ka's saddle bags. He scrambled up on top of Ka to see if he could spot Zav or perhaps Pophur. Just as before, he saw Zav's shard mount before he saw Zav. He piped Ka over to Zav.

Zav was watching an animated discussion between the two Green leaders Vaskia and Tomon, and the two Whites, Pophur and the slave girl. Zav’s tense bearing, Vaskia’s anger and Tomon resigned frustration painted a picture of conflict.

"What's up?" asked Kin.

"Pophur been making a last minute trade for rock sugar. 5 hundred-days ago rock sugar be cheaper here than it be in the White territories. Now that no longer be true. There be a lot of heated talk and hand gestures be flying back and forth, but it all be a waste of time. It be too late to get rid of the rock sugar, delaying a day would be costing us more than the rock sugar be worth. Pophur not be going to change and he not being remembering this conversation 5 minutes after it be finished. He has been forgetting many things of late." Zav commented with sorrow.

The discussion broke up with the Whites and the Green going their separate ways.

"Everyone ready to be moving out. We be taking the lead, after getting outside, you be scouting left and I be taking the right. We camping at Hawopt Grove for night sleep. It be North West of here. It be marked on the map." Zav tossed a crystal disc to him, presumably the disc would display the map.

The caravan started up the main thoroughfare, soon they reached the main airlock which Zav piped open with his flute

Once inside the lock Zav piped closed the inner doors, and piped open the outer doors. A blast of hot fiery air hit them, a taste of what was to come. As hot as that first wave of heat had been, it was nothing compared to temperature they felt as the Artificia stepped on to the burning sands under the night sky. Kin pulled his legs up as far away from the ground as possible, and blessed the Gods that Artificia did not transmit heat.

This close to dusk only the stone and crystal-like day trees were out. The night trees were still buried in their tubes.

Kin piped Ka off to the left, and when they were far enough away he started to sing softly to her. He made sure to drink lots of water to replace the sweat that was pouring off him. He almost stumbled onto a magma snake, the day life creature still awake despite the setting of the sun now an hour past. The creature lifted its giant head and turned to stare at Kin and his mount. Kin backed away slowly. He galloped away to lead the caravan around the danger.

Slowly the ground cooled, and the night trees came out of their tubes. After a few hours, Zav came around, and insisted he break his fast on one of the shard crab wagons. After leaping from Ka to the wagon, Kin piped instructions to Ka that she should follow the wagon.

The wagon was driven by Warron and his wife Kigia, cousins of Vaskia and Tomon. They shared a breakfast of mana bread and sour fruit wrapped in Net Tree leaves. All too soon he was out scouting again. He caught sight of some night wolves shadowing the caravan, but they were not desperate enough to attack. Kin reasoned that there must caves nearby.

At second meal they stopped for lunch. The air and the ground were now cold enough that, eating hot tube worm soup was not uncomfortable. Lunch was over quickly, and they were on the march again. As midnight came slowly closer, Kin started seeing more and more night life. Mana clouds started gathering, and slowly blocked out the stars. As it became overcast, it actually became warmer as the heat was trapped underneath the clouds.

By the time they made Hawopt Grove, Kin was exhausted. The Greens and the slave girl started cooking third meal. Dinner was lunch's tube worm soup seasoned with Net Tree leaves, and a mana loaf on the side. The White Wand slave girl was serving food and as Kin waited in line, he noted that as well as the scar on her throat, there was a burn scar on her wrist, and another crescent shaped scar in the center of her shoulder blade. As she turned he had a good look at the scar. A chill passed down his spine as something within him recognized the scar. Almost of its own accord, his hand reached out and traced the scar on her back. She jerked at his touch and spun around. He reached out and parted the hair covering her face.

"Do I know..."

"Some of us be hungry. Stop holding up the line and flirting with the pretty serving girl" interrupted Zav.

Kin found himself bundled off with his soup. Unable to talk to her even if he had known more than one phrase in hand talk.

"I be taking the first watch. I be waking you up in 2 hours," instructed Zav after they had finished the soup. He found himself escorted to a sleeping mat over his protests. Despite this he fell into a deep sleep of exhaustion soon after he lay down. It wasn't long before he began to dream.

++++++

{b}Location{/b} near Lost Souls, Battle Grounds {br}
{b}Time{/b} 11 Hundred Days Previous {br}

"Why don't you do it, Rath, you're older?"

"I can't sing worth shit, Kin."

"Why don't we just wait for adults to find us?"

"Because dawn is coming and we need to find shelter and we can't move her until the arrow is cut out."

"Cut it out. Please, cut it out," begged the girl on the ground.

"What about you, Maiho? Your mother is a Healer."

"I have never sung a knife. Also I can barely see straight at the moment," replied the Blue Wave girl indicating her freely bleeding scalp wound. She pressed a bloody cloth against the head cut, as she tried to staunch the flow.

"And before you ask, none of the singer caste will help. They didn't help when she was saving their lives. Why would they help now? Who else is there? Surely you don't expect Illia to cut it out herself do you? It has to be you" she continued.

Kin looked around at the circle of earnest faces and licked his lips.

He grasped the crystal knife and started singing. The knife blurred, vibrating in sympathy with his song. The hands of his helpers reached out and held her down. He sank the knife into her shoulder, and cut around the arrow. The sound of a young girl screaming filled his ears.

++++++

{b}Location{/b} Hawopt Grove, Red Blade - White Wand Border  {br}{b}Time{/b} Night Sleep 7900 hours (16 hours before dawn) {br}

His scream filled his ears as he woke up. Zav's hand was shaking him.

“You be having a bad dream?" Zav asked.

"Yes, there was an accident or something and somebody was hurt and everyone expected me to fix her, to save her, but I was afraid, very afraid. I was afraid I would hurt her, afraid I would kill her," the words spilled out of Kin, who was unsure if he was explaining this to Zav, or himself.

"Still, it be only a dream," insisted Zav impatiently.

"Yes, only a dream" agreed Kin reluctantly.

Zav lay down on the sleep mat Kin had just vacated. Kin went to saddle Ka so he could ride a circuit.

Despite the fact He had had only 2 hours sleep, he had no trouble staying awake during his watch.