Chapter 4 : Predawn.

{b}Location{/b} wilderness,  White Wand Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Pre-Dawn 900 hours (6 hours before dawn) {br}

The caravan had stopped in order to harvest the falling mana. Reluctantly Kin started to get up.

Illia eyes fluttered. She smiled as she saw him. 

“I am starting to remember. Your name is Illia, and we had a friend called Maiho.” 

She nodded.

He remembered that both of them had held him when he cried over missing his parents. Sometimes Maiho had cried too. Illia never did. Kin realised that Maiho would be an adult now. He tried to imagine what Maiho would look like all grown up. Illia looked very good all grown up.

“You are pretty. You shouldn’t cover your face” he said.

“Kin, lazy-bones, you be hurrying up. You be getting your arse out there. You be scouting the trees,” yelled Zav.

“I had better go. Talk to you later?” he asked.

She smiled and nodded.


Kin jumped off the shard crab wagon onto Ka. He waved to Illia and the Greens then headed out to scout around the camp.

By the time Kin had completed his first circuit the lunch tables were out even though it as a little early and foragers had collected leaves, nuts, fruit and of course mana. Kin hoped it was not tube worm soup again. He could see something simmering over fire crystals. 

Zav waved Kin over. “Grab lunch while you can. We be not staying long. We cannot afford to be spending too much time harvesting mana as we be needing to be at Village of the Lonely Sceptre before dawn” said Zav.

Illia was serving food again. He noticed her hair was now tied back. 

“I like your hair that way.” He commented as she served him. She gave a smile in response, and then he had to move on.

Lunch was a thickened stew with a hodgepodge of ingredients, there was night hare, tube worm and a variety of greenery fresh from the forest. He finished up quickly and returned his bowl. He was hoping to catch Illia free, so that he could spend time with her.

However she seemed busy with packing up the camp. Many of the Greens were engaged in either gathering mana, or compressing it into bricks. 

Kin mounted Ka and started his circuit. By the time he looped back to the camp the caravan was leaving. Many of the Greens were looking wistfully at the falling mana. Regretting not being able to collect it. However getting caught by the rising sun was a mistake you only made once.

The falling mana brought out many night creatures. He shot two night hares and hung them from his saddle.

Shortly after mana stopped falling, the night trees started withdrawing into their tubes and the night life disappeared into their caves. 

Kin spotted Illia riding one of the shard crab wagons. He pulled up beside the wagon.

"Would these be of any use to you?" asked Kin indicating the hares.

Illia nodded.

Kin tossed up the night hares. "I used to know someone who would roast hare marinated in fire fruit juice on a bed of razor grass shoots. It was delicious. You wouldn't know anyone like that would you?" He asked.

Illia smiled and nodded.

Kin waved goodbye, pulled ahead and to the left. The night trees and the night life had disappeared from view, leaving only stone and crystal shapes of the day trees, the sleeping day life, and the occasional abandoned Artificia.

The mana clouds were parting revealing the hidden stars. There was a lightening of the sky in the direction of dawn.

Kin consulted the map Zav had given him, singing the activation sequence instead of bothering with the flute. He galloped over to Zav.

"Cutting it close, aren't we?" Kin asked.

Zav pulled out a crystal that flashed different colours at different intervals. It was a time counter. "It should be fine." 

"Should be fine?" Asked Kin.

"We being inside the Village of the Lonely Sceptre's day nest before dawn breaks."

"I will hold you to that," Kin said as he studied the Eastern sky.

The Eastern sky continued to brighten. A hot wind started to blow from the east.

Finally, the air lock of the village came into view. Zav rode up and played the activation sequence to open the outer doors of the air lock on his flute. The caravan streamed into the air lock, and Zav then closed the outer doors. As the doors slammed shut Kin let out a breath he did not know he was holding. Zav opened the inner doors and they were inside the nest. 

They continued down the main thoroughfare, and instead of stopping at the uncomfortably hot foreign quarter they continued on to the cooler, deeper sections of the nest. The caravan pulled into one of the empty compounds and the wagons arranged themselves around the compound.

Kin piped Ka to a convenient alcove and dismounted.

The Greens had already made progress in setting up the cooking area and the eating area ready for dinner. Illia had set up four hares roasting over fire crystals. She was basting them with a mixture of red fruit and sour fruit juice. He guessed that the foragers had caught the other hares at the lunch stop. She smiled as she saw him. He offered to help with the cooking but she waved him off. 

Kin sat in the eating area to wait. Zav sat down next to him.

"You knowing it not be the best career move to fool around with your bosses slave," remarked Zav.

"Her name is Illia of the Village of the Alabaster Temple."

"How you be knowing that?" Zav looked startled.

"Ask Illia sometime, maybe she will share the story,” Kin replied. “You are very protective of Illia aren’t you?”


“I just not be wanting to lose a partner before I have been braking him in.”


“So you are trying to get me to believe, that it is me that you are worried about, and not Illia. If it is such a concern maybe I should just rent Illia off Pophur for a couple of hours. I wonder what he would charge” said Kin.

Zav stood up his face consumed with fury. He took a step toward Kin then stopped, his eyes flickering to the right. “Don’t be saying you haven’t been warned.” With that he stalked away.

Illia placed a plate of roast hare slices on a bed of lure spike shoots and other greenery in front of him.

“Zav obviously cares a great deal for you. Are you two…?” hesitantly asked Kin.

She shook her head.

Kin ate the first mouthful of the roast. “Your cooking is as good as I remember.”

She wiggled her hand upward like a worm then held her hand horizontally wriggling her fingers.

“Yes, I will make you my tube worm fried in round nut oil. I will do it for the entire company for the next sixth meal,” Kin promised.

Illia clapped her hands.

Kin’s face darkened and he looked troubled. “I am remembering more and more. I am the reason you are like this, aren’t I?”

She shook her head violently.

Kin took her hand examining the burn scar on the back of her wrist. There had been a tattoo there, a crystal mark, the kind only given to Red Blade warriors for extreme valor. Someone tried unsuccessfully to remove the valor mark by burning it off.

“I made Father Urg give you this. I told him that Blushing Flower owed a blood debt to you. Red Blades will do anything to repay a blood debt. He tried to warn me, but I did not listen. When you got back to Alabaster Temple, they would have seen this as a sign of pollution, that you were contaminated with foreign ways.”

Again she shook her head violently.

“It was your cousin wasn’t it? She was the one who told on you. The one with the light brown hair. She said the blood oath but she could not look me in the eye afterward.”

Illia looked down.

“Urthia, that was her name wasn’t it? We should have left her in the Village of Lost Souls, but I insisted that we rescue everyone.”

She placed her finger on his lips, and made a feeding gesture.

“You went to the trouble of making my favorite dish the. The least I can do is eat it before it gets cold.”

She made an explosive gesture with her hand then shook her head.

“Yes, I know that fire fruit is hard to find. Don’t worry the sauce you made is wonderful.”  

Kin ate every skerrick on his plate. “I have something for you. Or rather I would like to do something for you. Rath found a healing crystal in a back tunnel room somewhere and gave it to me.”

She shook her head.

“You don’t want me to heal you?” Kin asked.

She rolled her eyes then made a wave gesture.

“Maiho? What about her?”

She cupped her hands palms upwards and moved her hands towards him.

“Maiho gave me something? Oh! Maiho gave me the healing crystal? Of course, that’s why it looks exactly like hers.” said Kin. “But, why did Rath lie about where he got it from.”

Illia placed a finger to her lips. 

“Quiet. No, secret. Maiho told Rath to keep it secret.”

Illia shook her head and pointed to herself.

“You told Rath to keep it secret. Well that makes sense. He always did exactly what you told him to do. Did he have to wait so long to give it to me? He waited until I was 14.”

Illia tilted her head and raised her eyebrows.

Kin sighed and said. “Do you want me to try and heal your throat?”

Illia nodded.

“When and where?”

She stood up and reached for his hand.




