Chapter 5 : Dawn

{b}Location{/b} Lonely Sceptre,  White Wand Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Warming (Morning )1700 hours (48 hours before dusk) {br}


Illia led him over to Vaskia and Tomon’s table. Kin waited patiently while Illia sent a flurry of hand talk at them. She indicated Pophur with her head. He was resting on a table with his head on his arms.

“Don’t worry about Pophur. We will take care of him. He is always easier to handle when you’re not around anyway. You unsettle him, Sister,” said Vaskia.

Zav was staring at him with some hostility. Illia sent a flurry of hand talk his way, and Zav turned his head away. 

Illia collected a bag from one of the wagons, and Kin grabbed the bag with the healing crystal from where he stowed his gear. She led Kin down some side corridors until they reached a room with many large doors. One of the large doors had a small table in front of it.

“Are these traveling rooms like the ones we used in the Village of Lost Souls?” asked Kin.

Illia nodded then gestured with her open hand pointed upward. Kin closed his eyes and tried to remember the activation sequence for the traveling rooms, then he sang. The doors opened. 

After entering the traveling room, Illia removed a strange device from her bag. It was a white crystal with a metal fork attached to one end and a cylinder to the other. She tapped the metal fork on the wall, and a pure sound rang out, then a sequence of notes from the white crystal, she quickly placed the device on the table outside before snatching her hand back as the doors snapped closed.

“Aren’t we going to need that?” asked Kin referring to the crystal and metal device that they had left behind.

She shook her head as they both experienced a falling sensation. The white crystal had been a sound crystal. People had used them as message crystals before switching to flash crystals to store messages because of the habit sound crystals had of triggering other crystals and devices by accident. Slaves weren’t allowed flutes and other musical instruments. The sound maker was obviously Illia’s way around the restriction. 

"How many more of those do you have?" asked Kin.

Illia opened her bag and revealed a large assortment of crystal and metal devices.

The traveling room lurched to a stop and the doors opened. The corridor outside was dark but the crystals embedded in the walls started glowing and waves of light started flowing along the walls illuminating the entire area. 

Illia took him by the hand, pulling him along a side corridor.

"You left the crystal behind so people could follow us," Kin said.

She nodded. They turned a corner then she led them though a curtained doorway. The room was decorated with wall hangings, crystals and bits of metal. In the center was a large bed, and off to the side there were tables and chairs. Illia flopped down on the bed. 

“This looks a lot like our room in Lost Souls. You come here a lot, don’t you?” Kin asked looking though a work area full of metal working tools, bits of metal, fire crystal furnaces and ceramic molds.

She nodded then pointed to her throat.

“Impatient aren’t we?” 

She cocked her head and raised her eyebrows. Kin collected the healing crystal, and a vial of blue liquid from his bag.

“This is Healers' blessing, it should help with the pain. I only a have little bit of it I am afraid.” Kin said.


Illia downed the blue liquid and lay back on the bed. Kin waited for the blessing to take effect before starting. He held the crystal to her throat, and started singing the song that Maiho had taught him. She tensed, and twisted with the pain. He was reminded of the time he had cut the arrow out of her. He sang and sang until he was hoarse, and only stopped when the light died within the crystal. 

“Illia are you alright? How are you feeling? How does your throat feel? Did it work?” he asked.

With a shaking hand she pointed to the healing crystal.

“The crystal is empty of vitality. It needs to be put in a light box to recharge.”

She grabbed the crystal and rolled off the bed and staggered toward the entrance.

“Illia you need to rest” he said.

She waved him away. 

“Let me help you,” requested Kin.

She shook her head, pointed to him, then the bed, and then made a sleeping gesture. She then straightened up and walked out purposefully.

Kin followed at a distance as she strode back to the traveling rooms. He heard the sound of chiming bells coming from the traveling room area, but he turned the corner only to see the door to the traveling room snap shut.

He retraced his steps back to the room. It was only then, looking at her bag of tricks, lying open on a chair next to the bed, that he wondered how she had opened the traveling room, without her sound crystals.

He sang a brief musical phase, and the lights dimmed. He removed his breech-clout and collapsed on the bed. It had been a long day.

+++++
{b}Location{/b} near Lost Souls, Battleground {br}
{b}Time{/b} 11 Hundred Days Previous {br}

They clustered around the circular crystal looking at the displayed map. 

“This Village is the only one close enough to for us to make by dawn. The Village of Lost Souls,” asserted Rath.

“I can’t say I like the name much,” said Pas.

“It must be the Village the Reborn were taking us to,” Maiho said.

“It is probably full of reborn warriors then,” Jep said.

“Then we had better bring lots of these,” Illia said pointing to the war Artificia.

Illia walked over to where Kin was hugging himself and put her arms around him holding him tight. “Don’t worry everything will be alright.

+++++

{b}Location{/b} Lonely Sceptre,  White Wand Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Dawn Sleep 2500 hours (40 hours before dusk) {br}

Kin briefly woke as someone snuggled up behind him. He glanced down at the white arms holding him and relaxed. It was only Illia. He drifted back to sleep He began to dream.


+++++
{b}Location{/b} Lost Souls, Battleground {br}
{b}Time{/b} 11 Hundred Days Previous {br}

“Why aren’t they attacking us?” shouted Kin between the snatches of song he was using to control three war Artificia he was in charge of. It was hard keeping control of three at once, especially while protecting the children riding on top on them. While the ceiling of the thoroughfare was relatively high, he was constantly afraid of scraping his passengers off. He could see the Reborn shadowing them further up the corridor, but they weren’t coming closer or attacking.

“They are probably waiting for reinforcements. The only reason we made it this far, is that we caught them completely by surprise,” shouted Rath from where he was seated behind Illia on one of her war Artificia.

“We need to find somewhere to hide,” shouted Pas from where he was seated behind Kin.

“I know somewhere. Follow me,” shouted Illia.

It became harder to maneuver the Artificia as the corridors became smaller. Illia brought them to a series of doorways. She sang one of them open. 

“Get off the war Artificia. Get into the room,” yelled Illia.

“They’re dead ends. How is this supposed to help?” shouted Rath.

“They’re traveling rooms, they will take us to a different part of the nest,” yelled Illia.

“How do you know all this?” asked Pas.

“My parents are Archivists. They deal in forgotten secrets. Now get in,” yelled Illia.

The room could only hold half the children. Illia sent the first room ahead telling the children to exit the room when the door opened. She then opened a second traveling room for the rest of them.

“They’re coming, and they’ve got shard hunters and singers,” shouted Maiho.

Kin turned back to the war Artificia singing them back into action. Maiho joined him singing her war Artificia into action as well. The war Artificia were bigger and stronger than the hunters' but the hunters were fast. Kin knocked half a dozen hunters back with his war Artificia and Maiho did the same with hers. However one hunter scrambled between the war Artificias’ legs and one hunter scrambled over the war Artificias’ backs. Kin ran back toward the traveling room. A hunter knocked Kin flying, both sliding into the traveling room as the door snapped shut. Kin waited for the killing blow, but it never came. He became aware that Illia was singing a strange song, and the hunters were obeying it. The hunter backed off, and Illia helped him up. Kin looked around, and saw with relief that Maiho had made it. Illia held him, and he became aware that he was shaking. She kissed him on the forehead.

“It is going to be alright” she said.

+++++

{b}Location{/b} Lonely Sceptre,  White Wand Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Dawn Sleep 2800 hours (37 hours before dusk) {br}

As Kin woke up, he became aware that Illia was kissing him on the back of the neck, and behind the ears. He turned around in her arms, and pulled her close running his hand down her back. He trembled with excitement. He had wanted her since he saw her at Bloody Craw. His desire had only grown once he had found out who she was. He kissed her mouth and she responded with passion, pressing herself against him and squeezing his butt.

“Good fortune,” Kin said.

“Good fortune to you too,” Illia replied in a quiet raspy voice.

“It worked. It actually worked.”

“Not totally. I can’t sing. I can barely make myself heard.”

“We can try again when the healing crystal is recharged,” he said.

She shook her head. “I need a healing altar. The healing crystal is not powerful enough.”

“No priest is going to let a slave near their precious altar.”

“We have an altar here at Lonely Sceptre. All we need is the activation sequence,” she said.

“No priest is going to teach you the healing song for the altar either.”

“No, but a certain healer might.”

“Maiho?” he asked.

“Maiho,” she confirmed.

“My voice is getting tired and other parts of me require exercise,” she said wrapping her hand around his manhood.

She kissed him fiercely. Her lips had an incredible softness to them.  His lips tingled as he tasted them. He kissed her eyes and her neck wanting to possess all of her. He kissed his way down her body, lingering on the soft firmness of her breast. She arched her back as he fastened his lips on her nipple, sucking the rough firmness into his mouth. She giggled as he licked her belly button and pushed his head down further. He spread her outer lips smelling the sharp fragrance of her pussy. He kissed and licked her inner lips. She grasped as he teased her clit. He sucked her clit into his mouth and she moaned, rocking her hips. 

“I need you inside me,” she cried.
Kin ran his finger along her slit, inserting his finger as he sucked and licked her clit. He hooked his finger rubbing against the front wall of her pussy.

“I need more than your finger,” she gasped.

He moved up her body and she grabbed his manhood and guided it inside her. He was rock hard as he felt her hot wetness around his tip. He rocked backward and forward in her tight entrance letting her adapt. A few more thrusts and he was most of the way inside her. He leaned forward to kiss her.

“I can taste myself on your lips.”

She thrust her hips in time with his thrust and then he was all the way in. They seemed to fit together like they were made for each other. Her breath quickened and she started trembling. He felt her contract and pulse around his manhood as waves of contractions tightened around him. A groan welled up from within her, all her broken voice could manage. His climax built until he reached the point of no return. Then he shuddered with release as he shot his cum inside her.

He rolled them both to the side keeping himself inside her. Not willing to let her go. A sense of well-being flowed over him as the afterglow hit.

“I think I have always loved you,” whispered Kin.

“I love you too,” admitted Illia.


















