Chapter 6 : Day

{b}Location{/b} Lonely Sceptre,  White Wand Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Mid Day 3100 hours (34 hours before dusk) {br}


“I missed you, and Maiho, and Rath. You were my family,” rasped Illia.

Kin tensed when she mentioned Rath. “You seem to have a new family here. They all want to take care of you. The Greens even call you Sister.”

“Vaskia, Tomon, and their cousins belong to the Brotherhood of the Seal. They regard me as a Sister of the Seal.” 

“Seal? As in seal of bondage?” asked Kin.

“Yes, they are all ex-slaves. The Brotherhood provides help to slaves, and ex-slaves. If you wear the seal or have ever worn the seal they regard you as a brother or sister. The Brotherhood has been of great help to me over the period of my enslavement.”

“How did a whole group of cousins end up enslaved?” asked Kin.

“They were a smuggling ring. It was a family business. The magistrate gave them each 5 years in the mines. The Brotherhood is strong in the mines. Afterwards there was no place for them in their old village. It is a common pattern. The Brotherhood found them a place in a caravan. Most travelers are part of a caravan because they do not fit in where they were raised, and many of those are of the Brotherhood. I first ran across them 4 hundred-days or so ago. I belonged to the owner before Pophur, my 8th owner then. We all found the association mutually beneficial, they could obtain crystals, and other goods that were usually difficult to find. And I could often show them how to use and benefit from those goods in new and interesting ways.”

“How about Zav? Is he a brother of the seal?”

“No, we met him 3 hundred-days ago. The cousins had ‘acquired’ 6 shard hunters for me.  When bandits attacked the caravan, I used them. It was a large caravan and I could not protect all of it but I managed to use the hunters to protect the cousins' wagons. The cousins always stick together, it is one of the reasons they survived the mines, so their wagons were together. My owner, most of the wagoneers and guards were killed. I managed to save the cousins, a few other wagoneers and two of the guards. Being Red Blades they immediately insisted that they owed me a blood debt. One them was Zav. Every time I insist that he has paid off his debt he insists that he has not” she said.

“That is because he is in love with you.”

“No, he is far too old for me.”

“Has anyone told him that?” he asked.

“He is old enough to be my father.” 

Kin rolled his eyes. “How did you control the hunters?” he asked.

Illia removed her seals of bondage from the seat next to the bed and showed them to him.

“I am pretty sure that you are not supposed to be able to take those off,” he said.

“The punishment is disembowelment if you do. But I won’t tell if you won’t.”

“I knew those weren’t real seals.”

“On the contrary, the cousins and I were careful to make sure that these meet the legal requirement for seals. Of course, these weren’t my seals when the bandits attacked, I had to carry them around in a bag. They only became my seals when Pophur bought me,” she said.

“How do they work?”

Illia twisted one of the strange rods that made up the seal. She removed it from the seal, and used it to strike the metal strips producing a series of bell like notes.

“Ingenious. How did Pophur come into the picture?” he asked.

“We had a caravan or what was left of one, but no Caravan Master’s Warrant. Pophur had a warrant, but no caravan. Also I had been seized as part of my master’s estate, and was being sold at auction. So we needed someone who was a ‘fit and proper’ tribesman to buy me. In all, Pophur has mostly worked out.”

“Is that the crystal for the traveling rooms?” he asked pointing a device on the same chair where she had gotten the seals.

“Yes, I decided I did not want anyone coming down here unannounced after all,” she said snuggling up to him. “Tell me about everyone.  How are Rath and Pas?”

“Pas is getting married to a lovely girl. The family makes breech-clouts. Jep went off to be Caravan Guard about 2 hundred-days ago. Rath,” Kin hesitated. “Rath died in hunting accident about a hundred-days ago.”

Illia gripped him tightly and buried her face in his shoulder. Kin tried to comfort her as best he could. His shoulder became wet with her tears.

“I have bad news too. Our guard that was killed by bandits on the way was Jep. I ran into him in the foreign quarter in the Village of the Pale Trees. He recognized me straight away. Laq wanted to retire, so we hired Jep as his replacement. Jep was the one who told me that you intended to travel to Bloody Claw to hire on as caravan guard as soon as you reached 20 hundred-days old. That’s why we were at Bloody Claw at that time. Usually we visit there later in the season,” she confessed.

“Maiho will be devastated.  She as was really close to Jep,” he remarked, feeling stunned.

“What are we going to do next?” he asked.

“We will finish taking the trade goods to Pale Trees. Then we will buy trade goods that we can sell at the Village of the Waterless Shore Shore. While we are at Waterless Shore, we will find a way to talk to a certain Healer that lives there” she said. “But before we can do any of that we need to wait for dusk. We have 40 more hours trapped in Lonely Sceptre. You wouldn’t have any idea what we could do to while away the time would you?”

“I might have a few ideas,” said Kin kissing her.












