Chapter 8 : Councillors

++++++
{b}Location{/b} Southern Healing Clinic, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Morning 1700 hours (48 hours before dusk) {br}

When Maiho exited Bardre’s room with a sullen Nargre in tow, her mother was talking with her Father and Pelfra at the greeter’s desk. 

“Mum, you look so tired. Why don’t you take dad to dinner and I will take your place at the council meeting?” suggested Maiho.

Telvra looked startled then smiled. “That is so thoughtful, dear. It’s good to take a rest from that Orock-judged bureaucracy.” she said, just as if she hadn’t palmed off the last five council meetings in a row onto Maiho.

Maiho turned around and almost ran into Laivo. “Your messages are all on their way. I am going to get something to eat and spend some time with my husband before our shift. This is the last time I help out off shift,” she stated.

“We’ll talk more in an hour and a half,” said Maiho.

“There is no way you will be finished with the council that soon,” argued Laivo.

“We’ll see.” Maiho picked up one of her bags and both her swords from an empty consulting room.

“Why are you kitted out like you’re headed to battle?” asked Nargre as they exited the clinic.

“Because I am about to piss off some very powerful people. People who are used to getting their own way,” answered Maiho. “You should start wearing a sword.”

“In the village?”

“Especially in the village. Appoint an aide or two to help you with the paperwork. Big burly aides who know how to use a sword.”

The council chambers were in the center of the village. They headed north through a residential area.

“I’m an archer, I am useless with a sword and I’m not going to hide behind bodyguards,” stated Nargre.

“As an archer you position yourself behind melee fighters, this is no different.”

“This is the village! We are safe.”

“I used to believe that, before I was kidnapped so that my soul could be destroyed and my body used as a finger puppet for a 500 hundred-day old ghost,” argued Maiho as she led Nargre through a maze of small corridors. Thankfully she knew the area around the clinics like the pattern on the back of her hand.

“That was outside. No-one is going attack us in the nest.”

“Shortly after I started acting as my mother’s proxy in the village council I was waylaid by two large toughs.”

“What did you do?” asked Nargre.

“I broke into a nearby furniture store and took a small wardrobe and trolley which I used to transport the bodies to the nearest traveling room.”

“Aren't you skipping a few details?”

“It's simple for me to force any door that's been locked with a flute,” explained Maiho.

“No, I meant the fight,”

“I wouldn't call it a fight. They threatened me, I killed them. I am not sure if they even realized I had drawn my blade before they bled out.”

“And no one saw you? “asked Nargre.

“There was a lookout, I let him get away.”

“And you’re not worried about confessing this to a guard?”

“I left money for the trolley and wardrobe,” protested Maiho.

“I meant killing two people.”

“Seven. The next day five bruisers wanted to talk to me about their two friends. I was very glad I had kept the trolley and the wardrobe,” said Maiho. The one with the crossbow had given her a scare and she had been full of crystal energy at the time. At the moment her vitality wasn’t very high, if she had to face off five opponents at the moment there might be a different outcome.

“Why do I get the feeling there is more than one point to this story?” sighed Nargre.

“Just have a look at the councilors’ bodyguards when we get to the council rooms. There is a reason they are there. Though since we will be there first you’ll probably have to check them out as we leave.” said Maiho. “Just think about getting protection. If not for you, then for Bardre when she is on her feet again.”

For a while Maiho concentrated on getting them out of the back corridors and onto the main passageway.

“Are you still angry about Bardre and me?” Maiho asked.

“You nearly killed her.”

“You once shot her with an arrow.”

“She deserved it,” Nargre stated.

“She deserved it this time too.”

Nargre burst out laughing, doubling over. Stopping to catch her breath, she wiped a tear from her eye and straightened. “So maybe I’ll forgive what you did to Bardre, as long as you fix her colour, but that doesn’t mean I don’t think you’re a confidence trickster who promises the impossible to the desperate.”

“What we are planning - “

“What {b}you{/b} are planning. I’m just along for the ride.”

“The plan is ambitious, but doable and you have your part,” argued Maiho.

“You tell us you can give us back the mythical Gardens of Plenty.”

“That part is easy. Keeping the Gardens and making good use of them is slightly harder, but achievable. And remember the plants are all dead. They all died of the plague 800 hundred-days ago.”

“It will still be better than living in the Shambles,” said Nargre.

The way opened up into a larger passage and soon they arrived at the council chambers. “Hi Lanfrud, How’s Yeoni?” Maiho asked a large swordsman standing out the front.

“The mistress is fine, and quite intrigued by your message.”

“This is Nargre, she is acting as Bardre’s proxy, and is Acting Captain until Bardre has recovered.”

“Bardre is ill?” asked Lanfrud.

“Training accident.”

“Why don’t you just tell him that you almost cut her in half?” whispered Nargre.

“That wouldn’t help anyone,” Maiho muttered quietly back. “You both got here very quickly,” she said more loudly.

“We don’t live far away, and whatever you sent in your message got Yeoni very excited,” replied Lanfrud.

“Send my love to Gwaiva.”

“How much has Bardre explained about how the village council works?” asked Maiho.

“I have avoided politics like the plague,” replied Nargre.

“So nothing. Okay. The council has nine members, three of which are Singers, three are senior family and three are common folk. You are one of common folk representatives and you represent the guard. Yeoni is another of the common folk representatives and she represents the farmers.”

They entered a large room dominated by a rectangular table. At the table sat a small thirty-ish woman. “Yeoni! How are you?” asked Maiho.

“Anxious to hear how you are going to deliver on your promises. If you have lured one of the senior families away from Logwan’s camp, I shall die of shock. Is this your bodyguard dear? She will have to wait outside,” replied Yeoni.

“This is Acting Captain Nargre, she has Bardre’s proxy. She has one of the votes we are going to need, so be nice.”

“I am always nice. How exactly are we going to get the needed votes? Have you broken Belshat’s leg?”

“He would only send a proxy, so that would be a waste of time,” responded Maiho.

“There might a certain satisfaction to it. Didn’t Belshat try to lean on you a few weeks ago?”

“Belshat came off far worse than I did in that transaction. I consider any debt from that incident fully paid already.”

“That’s right you killed twenty of his men didn’t you?” commented Yeoni.

“Only seven.”

“Oh, only seven. Only seven she says. I wouldn’t trust Gwaiva and Lanfrud to take care of more than one between them.”

“Are you in favour of my suggestion?” asked Maiho.

“As long as you can do as you promised.”

“I sent three messages. Whether I can deliver the desired result depends on the answer from the other two recipients to my messages.”

“If their message was as persuasive as the one you sent me then you will get your votes,” said Yeoni.

A distinguished gentleman in his fifties entered the room.

“Kevlin this is Acting Captain Nargre, she will be Bardre’s proxy for the next 5 day. Nargre this is Kevlin, he is the final common folk representative and he represents the craftsmen and craftswomen of the village.” said Maiho. “Kevlin, are you in favour of my proposal?”

“I need something extra.”

“What?”

“Three merchant licenses for the west corridors,” requested Kevlin.

“If he gets something extra then so do I.” insisted Yeoni.

“What do you want?” asked Maiho.

“A favour, to be redeemed later.”

“Fine, as long as it is reasonable.”

“Where are you going to get the fifth vote?” asked Kevlin.

“From me.” said Huglek as he strode into the room.

“Who are you?” asked Yeoni.

“He is Song Master Huglek,” Maiho informed them.

“It can’t be. The Song Master is 80 if he is a day,” protested Kevlin.

“Singers live long and age slowly,” responded Huglek.

“How can we know he is the Song Master?” asked Yeoni.

“You could ask one of my students or I could sing for you.” responded Huglek.

“Logwan will recognize him,” said Maiho.

“Yes, he was my junior priest for many years and a lazier more untrustworthy student I have yet to teach,” said Huglek

“They have a history,” added Maiho.

“Do you have my payment?” asked Huglek.

In answer she laid out a fully charged needle flinger and a shock wand on the table. Huglek gave her his old depleted needle flinger. “If you want this you must have access to a pool of regeneration.”

“Is that what you call it? I just call it the recharge pool.”

“Would have done this just for the satisfaction of seeing Logwan’s face.”

“No, you wouldn’t have,” argued Maiho

“Ha ha, No, maybe I wouldn’t have.”

A haughty man in his fifties stalked into the room. “Who the hell are these two?” asked Belshat. 

“Acting Captain Nargre and Song Master Huglek.” Maiho was starting to get tired of repeating herself.

“The fuck he is,” retorted Belshat.

“Logwan will vouch for him,” insisted Maiho. “Nargre and Huglek this is Belshat. He represents the 1st senior family. The 1st family regard themselves as in charge of Harvesting, although not all harvesting crews are run by them.” 

An old woman in her sixties wandered into the room. “Huglek is that you?”

“Huifa, you are as ravishing as ever.”

“As honey tongued as ever I see. So you have gone down Vuine’s road.”

“It eventually happens to all of us who Sing for a living,” stated Huglek.

“Then why doesn’t it happen to all Singers?” asked Huifa.

“Some of us work harder than others.”

“Huifa is 4th senior family. They consider themselves in charge of caravans, although as with the other senior families their aspirations don’t completely match reality,” Maiho whispered to Nargre.

“That is not what you said before,” said Huifa replying to Huglek.

“We say a great many foolish things when we are young,” observed Huglek. 

“If I recall correctly, and I do, you weren’t that young.”

“If no-one asks you to grow up and you are very foolish sometimes it does not occur to you to grow up on your own.”

“You swore that you would never set foot in these chambers again,” reminded Huifa.

“Never is a long time. And as I said before one says a great many foolish things when one is young.”

“H’mm!” she exclaimed in disapproval. 

A rather plain thirty-something woman marched into the room. “What did I miss?”

“Our long lost ninth council member has decided to grace us with his presence after an absence of 20 hundred-days,” Huifa announced.

“Song Master Huglek? You look younger than I expected,” observed Thiona.

“That is sweet of you to say my dear,” replied Huglek.

“Now that we have a quorum let’s start,” insisted Yeoni.

“We should wait for Logwan,” protested Belshat.

“Logwan is not our level lord, and this is not his court. We are all equals here. If Logwan can’t respect us enough to turn up on time, then fuck him. This council has operated with only 8 members for 20 hundred-days, it can do so this morning,” argued Yeoni.

“I move that we start on time,” said Kevlin.

“I second it,” said Yeoni.

“All in favour,” asked Kevlin. Five hands shot up. Maiho kicked Nargre under the table and she raised her hand making it six.

“Shouldn’t we debate the issue?” asked Belshat.

“The charter says we should start on time,” stated Kevlin. “All those against starting on time and instead letting Logwan waste our time.”

“That sounds like a debate to me,” said Belshat.

“Are you abstaining?” asked Kevlin.

“No.” reluctantly Belshat and Huifa raised their hands.

“Maiho, please record the motion upheld 6 - 2,” said Kevlin.

“Who made you, chair?” asked Belshat.

“Good point. Since our chair isn’t here and we need one, I move that we appoint Maiho as chair,” said Kevlin.

“Me?!” 

“I second the motion. It’s your show. You should be in the driver’s seat,” argued Yeoni.

“All in favor?” asked Kevlin.

“Hold on. She isn’t even a council member,” protested Belshat.

“Good point. We need to approve her as a proxy before we make her chair. I move that we examine and approve Maiho’s and Nargre’s proxy documentation,” said Kevlin.

“I second the motion,” said Yeoni.

“Do we have to do this every time? It’s clear that Telvra doesn’t want to attend these meetings. Why don’t we just make Maiho the Healer’s representative?” asked Thiona.

“That would be the sensible thing to do. Unfortunately the charter doesn’t allow us to do that. I move we approve Maiho’s and Nargre’s right to act as proxys, documentation sight unseen,” said Kevlin.

“I second the motion,” called out Yeoni.

“All in favor?” asked Kevlin. This time seven hands shot up.

“How can Maiho and Nargre vote on whether they are allowed to vote?” asked Huifa.

“Even if we don’t count Maiho and Nargre it is still 5 - 1,” said Yeoni.

“All those against?” asked Kevlin.

Huifa raised her hand. “You children think you can ignore the rules when it is inconvenient, but don’t expect me to approve.”

“Noted. Maiho, please record the motion upheld 5 - 1,” said Kevlin. “Maiho shouldn’t record the meeting while acting as chair. I move that we appoint Huglek as secretary.”

“I second the motion,” said Yeoni.

“Hold on, I didn’t sign up for this,” protested Huglek.

“Things run smoother if a Singer is secretary, Huglek.” said Maiho. Reluctantly Huglek nodded.

“All in favour?” asked Kevlin. “Secretary Huglek, please record the motion upheld unanimously.” Maiho passed the record crystal containing the minutes to Huglek.

“I move that we appoint Maiho as chair,” said Kevlin.

“I second the motion,” said Yeoni.

“All in favor?” asked Kevlin. “Song Master, please record the motion upheld 5 - 3,”

“I suggest that the chair take her proper seat at the head of the table.” said Kevlin with a gesture.

Maiho shifted to her new position and laid a large book crystal on the table. “I have taken the liberty of creating a new agenda.” An image formed over the book, showing everyone her agenda. 

Logwan entered with a bounce in his step. “Sorry I’m late.” He froze in mid bounce, his face became pale and he managed to choke out, “Master Huglek?”

“Student Logwan.” said Huglek with heart-felt hatred.

Logwan staggered to the table and tried to sit down. He missed the stool and had to grab the table to keep from falling down. He didn’t even notice that Maiho now occupied his customary seat. He mustered his courage and squeaked out “Why are you here?”

“I am a member of the village council or had you forgotten?”

“But, you said -“

“I know what I said. I reserve the right to change my mind,” said Huglek.

“I move to reappoint Senior Priest Logwan as chair,” called out Belshat.

“What? Say What?” asked Logwan in confusion.

“I second the motion,” said Huifa.

“All those in favour?” asked Maiho. “All those against? Huglek, please record the motion defeated 3 - 5.”

“What?” asked Logwan, still confused.

“While you were playing your little status games Maiho stole your position as chair,” explained Belshat.

“But?” asked Logwan, alarm starting to penetrate the confusion.

“The first item on our agenda is authorization for a night market to be held every five days so that craftsmen can display and sell their wares,” state Maiho. The night market was part of Kevlin’s price.

“I move that we authorize the night market.” said Kevlin.

“I second the motion,” said Yeoni.

“But if craftsman are allowed to sell their wares directly, where does that leave merchants? We will go out of business!” cried Thiona the representative from the 5th senior family, who notionally represented all merchants, though in practice it was the 5th family merchants, whose interests she defended.

“It’s only once every five days. In-nest stores are far more convenient. As long as your prices are reasonable you will receive more sales as the increased interest will drive people to shop around in order to get exactly what they want,” argued Maiho. Thiona looked at Maiho with horror and disbelief.

“All those in favor?” asked Maiho. “All those against? Huglek, please record the motion upheld 5 - 4.”

“You can’t do this!” protested Logwan.

“Do what?” 

“Take over like this.”

“According to the charter I can,” asserted Maiho.

“You aren’t even a member of the council.”

“We already covered this. If you had been here on time you would know this.”

“And who is this woman?” asked Logwan.

“This is Acting Captain Nargre, she is in charge of the Guard while Bardre is recovering.”

“Bardre is sick?”

“Again if you had been here on time you would already know all this. The next item on the agenda is new merchant licenses,” announced Maiho.

“We barely have enough custom for our existing merchants. This village can’t support more,” protested Thiona.

“I have it on good authority that it will support three new merchants in the west corridors plus three more in the south east corner,” replied Maiho.

“Cutthroat Alley? No-one lives there. It is right next to the entrance to the Shambles,” Belshat pointed out.

“The Gardener lives there, as well as her senior enforcers,”

“The Gardener doesn’t exist.”

“Oh she exists alright, and as a head of the 2nd senior family shouldn’t she have a seat on this council?” asked Maiho.

“If she exists at all she is a dirty Shambler. She has no old blood,” said Belshat. 

Nargre’s stool scraped noisily as she half rose from her seat, her nose flaring and her fists clenched. Maiho decided it was probably a good thing that Nargre had not brought her bow. Maiho looked Nargre in the eye and shook her head slowly at her. Nargre settled down muttering something about making him pay.

“She is a descendant of the 2nd Level Lord, just as you are a descendant of the 1st Level Lord and Huifa is a descendant of the 4th,” stated Maiho.

“Is there a 3rd of these so called senior families?” asked Nargre.

“The family of the 3rd Level Lord died out. As did the 5th senior family. Thiona there is the descendant of the 5th Level Lord’s chief bodyguard. The last Lord adopted his bodyguard with his dying breath. At least that was what the bodyguard said. There were no other witnesses.”

“You dirty liar,” yelled Thiona.

“I am sure the history lesson is interesting to some. Can we stick to an agenda? Even if it is Maiho’s. And Thiona your family history is a proud one, don’t be ashamed of it, save your outrage for what they are doing to your merchants,” advised Huifa. 

“What can we do? Their little cabal has the numbers to push through any measure they want," complained Thiona.

"Patience. No political alliance lasts forever,” counseled Huifa. 


“I move that we sell three merchant licenses for the west corridors at 2 rods per license.” said Maiho. She glanced at Kevlin who grimaced and reluctantly nodded.

“I second the motion,” said Kevlin.

“All those in favor?” asked Maiho. “All those against? The motion is upheld 5 - 4.”


“I won’t be a part of this farce any longer,” said Thiona as she stood up and left the council chambers.

“If we all left, they wouldn’t have a quorum,” argued Belshat.

“If you leave the chamber without the chair’s permission then your vote will be counted as an abstaining vote for each following vote until the end of the session,” said Logwan.

“Good boy, Logwan. It seems you remembered some of what I taught you after all,” said Huglek.

Logwan straightened and said “I am not your junior priest any more Huglek.”

“So you actually have some spine left. I am going to enjoy crushing you, Boy.”

“I am 59 hundred-days old, if you call me boy one more time. I’ll - “ warned Logwan

“Act your age Logwan,” remanded Huifa sharply interrupting Logwan mid-threat.

“I move that we sell three merchant licenses for the south-east corner corridors at 1 stone per license.” said Maiho. She glanced at Nargre who shrugged.

“I second the motion,” said Nargre.

“Only 1 stone for a license?” asked Huifa.

“The location is not the best,” explained Maiho.

“The Shamblers ignore our laws anyway. Why would they need a license?” asked Belshat.

“I am going to try and change that,” explained Maiho.

“All those in favor?” asked Maiho. “All those against? The motion is upheld 5 - 3, 1 abstaining.” Maiho continued “The next item on our agenda is rezoning half a square kilometre of the Gozache Forest for farming.” This was Yeoni’s price.

“That area belongs to Jospher’s harvesting crew,” protested Belshat.

“We’ll give him a choice between a reduced license fee, or an additional area further out,” said Maiho. “I move that we lease the new farm land at 35 rods per hectare,” Maiho glanced at Yeoni who shook her head. “Correction 30 rods per hectare.” Yeoni reluctantly nodded.

“I second the motion,” said Yeoni.

“All those in favor?” asked Maiho. “All those against? The motion is upheld 5 - 3, 1 abstaining.”

“You don’t have to keep noting Thiona as abstaining,” advised Huglek.

“Next on the agenda is granting of a new harvesting license to the people of the Shambles in the person of the Gardener. The proposed license covers a 3 square kilometres area of the Thusken Forest and right of way along the Gozache Trail,” announced Maiho.

“If the Shamblers want to harvest Mana, wood or fibre, they can join an existing harvesting crew,” protested Belshat. Nargre seemed particularly pleased with his discomfit.

“The people of the Shambles are only selected as harvesting crew when the crew chiefs are short and they can’t make up the numbers any other way. They are starving half the time and on short rations the rest. The Thusken Forest is too far for anyone else to bother harvesting.”

“Another harvesting crew will depress the prices for Mana and wood,” wailed Belshat.

Quickly and efficiently Maiho worked her way through the agenda delivering everything she had promised to Bardre, Narge, Kevlin and Yeoni. Huifa almost exploded when she rammed through a measure that forced Waterless Shore based caravans to pay some of the same fees paid by foreign caravans. She went white with rage when they stripped her of the office of treasurer, and gave it to Kevlin, however if she had been allowed to keep the office the new licenses would have gone to her cronies instead of Yeoni and Kevlin’s cronies. They used some of the new income to finance an increase to the Guard on the grounds of increased bandit activity. Maiho also used the opportunity to make Wendam and Laivo trainee Healers, this was a hard sell even to her allies. She pointed to records showing two clinics each with a Senior Healer, two juniors and two trainees. She almost lost Yeoni over the issue. By the end of the hour she was exhausted. Belshat and Huifa looked like they wanted to kill the rest of them and Logwan looked lost and depressed.

“I move that Maiho be appointed representative to the regional Council of Councils,” said Huglek.

“What?” asked a started Maiho. “That wasn’t on the agenda.”

“I second the motion,” said Nargre. 

“All those in favor?” asked Huglek. Four hands were raised.

“You really want me to do this?” asked Maiho.

“Kenthan will kill me!” exclaimed Logwan.

That convinced Maiho. It was time she had a face to face talk with Kenthan. She raised her hand.

“Motion upheld,” announced Huglek.

Logwan moaned. However, maybe he should have been less worried about Kenthan, and more worried about Huifa and Belshat, both of whom were looking daggers at him. Fortunately for Logwan he had had the foresight to pick a successor who was completely incompetent. It was the one thing that might save him.

Maiho closed the meeting. “Now I have to work my shift in the clinic,” she sighed.
