Chapter 10 : Compromise

++++++
{b}Location{/b} Southern Healing Clinic, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Warming (Morning) 2200 hours (43 hours before dusk) {br}

Maiho briefly closed her eyes, then tried to disentangle herself from Laivo, but Laivo would not let go. She was surprisingly strong.

“Time to get back to work,” announced Maiho.

“You have already done enough. You are exhausted,” countered Laivo.

“The work is not going to get done by itself. There are all those patients that didn’t get treated because I was busy with Raeha and I also have to stop Huglek killing off the senior families.”

“The aids have treated all the patients. They can all wait a little before they really need the altar. As for the senior families let Huglek kill them. What have they ever done for the village?" argued Laivo.

Maiho cupped Laivo's cheek and tilted her head so she could look into her eyes. "Do you really want the nest's corridors to flow red with blood? Do you have any idea how much death and destruction a Singer can inflict on others?" she asked. 

Laivo stared back defiantly before blush and looking away. “You need to look after yourself for once,” she said hoarsely.  Maiho frowned and looked more closely at Laivo. Her eyes were glowing and her hair was standing up. She had a wild crazed look. Maiho wondered if this was what people saw when they looked at her.

Maiho had never given that much vitality to anyone before and Laivo was not used to it. “Are you okay?”

Laivo licked her lips and looked down and to the left. “I have never felt better,” she breathed. “I’m all tingly. I feel like I can lift mountains, crush rocks. I feel wonderful.” She touched her lips. “Do I have the lips?" she asked.

"The lips?" asked a confused Maiho.

"My mother has blue lips. Have mine gone blue?"

At first Maiho didn't understand and then she did. "Oh. Oh! Uhm no. That kind of thing usually takes a few hours. At least it did with Bardre."

"You did it with Bardre?"

"No. Similar effect, different uhm. Nevermind. So how did your mother - ?”

“Viune.”

“Thank the gods.”

“Who did you think - ?”

“Never mind,” Maiho said closing off the conversation before it became even more embarrassing. She rolled and twisted, dumping Laivo on the floor.

“Hey!”

“The village isn’t going to save itself,” said Maiho, adjusting her beech-clout so that it covered her. She strode to the door, leaving Laivo to catch up. She almost ran into a guard as her opened the door.

“Sorry Instructor. Belshat is here,” said the guard hurriedly sidestepping.

“Put him in the big meeting room,” Maiho instructed. Tell him that I will be with him shortly. When Thiona and Foenad arrive put them in the same room. Where are Maksim and Nolwark?” 

“Consulting Room 4,” replied the guard.

“Do you really think Thiona and Foenad will come?” asked Laivo. “I’m amazed that Belshat came.”

“They will all be nervous about Huglek,” said Maiho. “They’ll come.” Turning to the guard she asked, “Can you find Tagran for me?”

“I don’t know what he looks like,” said the guard.

“He’s the Head Healer’s Aid here. His rank necklace will have one blue and two white crystals,” advised Maiho.

“I think I’ve seen him.”

“Good I’ll be in Consulting Room 4. Tell him to meet me there.” she replied. She headed towards room 4. She paused at the door and turned to Laivo asking. “Can you look scary?” 

Laivo responded by giving a grimace. Maiho shook her head “That just makes you look constipated. Try look predatory, like you want to eat the other person.”

Laivo batted her eyelids and looked coy.

Maiho groaned. “Never mind. Just be yourself. The eyes and hair will probably make them soil their beech-clouts anyway.”

“The way you look, they will be so terrified of you, they won’t even notice me,” said Laivo. With a slam of her palm the door swung open and they both entered the room.


——

Later they both headed for the big meeting room. When then entered the room Belshat was pacing nervously while Foenad was seated at the table.

“Naedri’s mercy! There are two of them!” exclaimed Foenad.

Belshat spun around and did a double take. “What’s wrong with your eyes?” he asked.

“Its a side effect of saving Raeha’s life. It wasn’t easy,” replied Maiho.

“Radha’s alive?! Huglek was screaming outside Huifa’s place that Huifa had killed her.” Belshat exclaimed.

“She did, but I brought her back,” announced Maiho.

Belshat raised his eyebrows in disbelief. “I never know when you are being serious,” he confessed. He frowned. “Are you going to look like that from now on?” he asked.

“You have bigger problems. I wouldn’t worry about this if I were you,” stated Maiho, indicating her eyes.

“What are going to do about that madman who is threatening to kill my aunt?” asked Foenad.

“Why would I do anything about that?” asked Maiho.

“Your message said - “ began Foenad.

“I will help you resolve matters, but it will cost you,” stated Maiho.

“We are willing to pay 300 rods to get rid of him,” responded Foenad.

Maiho sighed. “Not that kind of cost,” she warned. “Huifa will resign as head of your family in favour of you. She will be put on trial for conspiracy to commit murder. She will be sentenced to 30 hundred-days of enslavement.”

“Why don’t you ask for 100 hundred-days?” asked Foenad, bitterly. “My aunt is 64. She doesn’t have 30 hundred-days left.”

“We didn’t come here for you to play games with us,” said Belshat, pushing past them. “If you are not going to be serious I’m leaving.”

“I would go out there if I were you,” said Maiho. “You might run into Huglek.”

Belshat froze with his hand on the door handle. Thiona slammed the door into Belshat as she entered the room, sending him staggering back.

“What did I miss?” asked Thiona, ignoring Belshat. Only a slight smile betrayed that she realised that she had hit him with the door.

“Belshat and Foenad were just telling me that they would rather Huifa die than pay for her crimes,” said Maiho.

“That’s not - “ started Foenad.

“The bitch doesn’t have enough skin to fray in order to pay for all her crimes,” interrupted Thiona. “What has the screecher done now?”

“Show some respect,” said Belshat. “She is a senior family head.”

“Well I am too,” said Thiona. “But when has that magma snake has never shown {b}me{/b} any respect?”

“Shall we all sit down.” suggested Maiho.

“Is Huglek really here or was that another one of your games?” asked Belshat.

“Oh, he’s here alright,” said Thiona. “I just ran into to him. He’s visiting his wife. She’s ill.”

Belshat turned pale.

“Sit down Belshat,” commanded Maiho. Belshat was so shaken that he actually obeyed, sitting down in the next chair and placing his head in his hands.

“Who is the twitch with the matching hair and eyes?” asked Thonia, pointing to Laivo.

“This is trainee healer Laivo,” said Maiho, “I’m showing her the ropes. We discussed Laivo’s appointment in the meeting you walked out of.” Laivo grimaced and opened her mouth to contradict Maiho. Maiho reached out and touched her hand, using the colour in her body as if it was a message crystal. “Play along,” Maiho send to her. Laivo was so startled by Maiho’s disembodied voice whispering in her ear that she gaped open mouthed for a few seconds.

“And why to the both of you look like ghosts in a bad play,” asked Thiona.

“It’s due to the after effects of an intense healing season,” answered Maiho.

“Can we stop with the polite, but meaningless chit-chat and get on with the matter at hand?” asked Foenad.

“What do you want to talk about? Whether we are going to give into Maiho’s demands and make Huifa a scapegoat or allow Huglek to continue to wage war on the 4th family?” asked Belshat, in a morose tone.

“Things haven’t degenerated that far, have they?” asked Foenad.

“Oh! This meeting is much more interesting than the last one,” said Thiona. “I vote we scape the goat out of that witch. What {b}is{/b} a scapegoat by the way?”

“I don’t know. I’m not an Archivist. All I know is that they get blamed for things,” sighed Belshat.

“Why don’t we leave her out in the sunlight? Or burn her?” asked Thiona. “I’ll provide the wood.”

“You’re not as funny as you think you are Thiona,” said Belshat.

“There has to be another way,” said Foenad. “Are you telling me that the entire strength of the senior families can’t deal with an old ex-priest?”

“The demand for Huifa’ enslavement, is that coming from you or Huglek?” asked Belshat, looking at Maiho.

“I’m acting for Huglek,” replied Maiho.

“That’s an interesting choice of words. If we agree to offer up Huifa and let her be enslaved, will Huglek agree that the matter is closed?” asked Belshat.

“Belshat! We’re not charterless bandits. The village charter guarantees a trial,” protests Foenad.

“We have more than enough evidence to convict Huifa,” said Maiho. “That’s no problem. The problem is that trials go awry when the senior families are involved. In this case I want your guarantee that the trial will go smoothly and without interference.”

“So what exactly did Huifa do?” asked Thiona. “Does it have something to do with why there is a bunch of shard hunters hanging out in front of Huifa’s place?”

“Shard hunters! I didn’t hear about those. Does Huglek have shard hunters?” asked Belshat.

“The shard hunters are mine,” said Maiho.

“You’re helping Huglek?” asked Foenad.

“How did you get shard hunters?” asked Thiona “Their hasn’t been a caravan with shard hunters for several hundred days.”

“I’m helping the senior families and Huglek resolve their differences,” said Maiho.

“It sounds as if your helping Huglek rather than the families. and you still haven’t explained what happened,” said Thiona.

“Belshat and Huifa sent ten enforcers and two lookouts to waylay Huglek and kill him,” said Maiho.


“I had nothing to do with that,” protested Belshat.

“I have witnesses who say otherwise,” said Maiho.

“I didn’t think you and Huifa had the guts,” said Thiona. “I thought you would do {b}nothing{\b} as usual.”

“I tried to convince Huifa that it was a bad idea. Did your witnesses tell you that?” asked Belshat, ignoring Thiona.

“You only did so because you thought it was too risky,” said Maiho. “Huifa wanted to send three enforcers. You convinced her to send ten. You even lent her three enforcers and a lookout for the job.”

“How did you scrounge up three enforcers - ?” started Thiona.

“When he had lost so many people in clashes with my parents and me, that he had to borrow a couple enforcers from you?” finished Maiho. “That’s simple. He lend your enforcers to Huifa.”

“You promised you wouldn’t use them against Singers,” accused Thiona.

“Actually I only promised not to use them against Maiho,” countered Belshat.

“What kind of fool do you think I am?” asked Thiona. “That nonsense wouldn’t satisfy a five hundred day old.”

“You are always criticising us for not doing anything. Well, we did something,” retorted Belshat.

“You treat me like a poor cousin, always telling me that I am too rash and too inexperienced. Well what has your great wisdom and experience brought us Belshat?” said Thiona. “Huglek looked pretty good when I just talked to him.”

Belshat gritted his teeth, but said nothing. 

“If Huglek is here. What has happen to my Aunt?” asked Foenad. “Wasn’t Huglek in her apartment, trying to - “

“Huifa is still hold up in her apartment. She is not going anywhere,” said Maiho.

“Tell us the rest of it,” said Thiona. “What happen to my men?”

“The lookouts both survived. Foenad and Belshat it would be good for us talk to them. They should be able add details to the sequence of events,” said Maiho. “Can you two find them and present them at follow-up meeting?”

“Why would we do that?” asked Belshat.

“If you trust my version of events?” said Maiho doubtfully.  “I guess there is no real reason to,” she continued. But they wouldn’t trust her, they would argue far into Dawn Sleep and she needed to wake early to meet with Nargre and her friends.

“Just get on with it,” demanded Thiona. 

“Two of the enforcers were captured when they sought a healer’s help at this clinic.” said Maiho. “The remaining eight enforcers are probably dead. The guard is still collecting body parts from the scene of the conflict. The dead probably include your enforcers Thiona. I’m sorry.”

“Ragloc was my cousin. Jurlen has worked for the family since he was a child,” said Thiona.

“We have all lost people, Thiona,” said Belshat.

“Daylight burn you, Belshat. This is all your fault,” shouted Thiona.

“Huglek’s wife Raeha was shot with a crossbow during the conflict. The fact that she is still alive is the only reason he is willing to let you all live,” said Maiho.

“We don’t respond well to threats,” said Thiona.

“That wasn’t a threat, just a statement of fact,” said Maiho.

“How did Huglek manage to ambush the uhm team?” asked Thiona, “And where did he get the muscle to take down ten enforcers?”

“The family kill team ambushed Huglek,” answered Maiho. “He was taken completely by surprise.”

“Then who killed the enforcers?” asked Thiona.

“Huglek and his wife did,” said Maiho.

“Just two people against ten,” queried Thiona.

“Two Singers against 10 non-singers,” said Maiho. “They didn’t stand a chance.”

“Tube slush! Even with a powerful weapon that would be unlikely,” retorted Thiona.

“And Huglek’s wife isn’t a Singer,” add Foenad.

“Huglek was senior priest for tens of hundred-days, in that time don’t you think he would have acquired a crystal weapon,” said Maiho. “As for Raeha, she is healer caste, and like all singer caste has been trained to sing.”

“I still don’t believe it,” stated Thiona.

“What is there to believe?” asked Maiho, in annoyance. “You are too used to dealing Logwan. You have forgotten how dangerous Viune was, people were afraid of her for a reason. Did you think that all the stories people tell about her were just that, only stories. If Huglek hadn’t been taken by surprise he would have be able to kill all of your little murder squad with ease. He is not going to be taken by surprise again.” Her eyes flicked to the door her sensitive hearing giving her advanced warning. The door opened and two guards escorted Nolwark in.

“This is one of the two survivors of the altercation,” explained Maiho. “Nolwark would you explain what happened.”

Nolwark eyes flickered around the room each face he saw seemed to frighten him more than the last. He twisted in the guards grip searching for a way to escape.

“Its okay Nolwark. No-one is going to hurt you here,” reassured Maiho. “Just tell your story.”

Nolwark licked his lips and swallowed. 

“How did you find Huglek and his wife?” prompted Maiho.

“There’s a restaurant they go to. We hit them as they came out of the restaurant. Bagtav and Menfus went in with the the knifes,” said Nolwark.

“I told you to use crossbows,” exclaimed Belshat.

Everyone looked at Belshat. He shrunk down in his seat.

“Too many things a can go wrong with a crossbow,” said Nolwark. “It is easier to control the situation with a knife.”

“When Bagtav and Menfus closed on the pair, the girl grabbed her flute except it wasn’t a flute that came out of the flute holder it looked like a shock wand but when she sang and hit Bagtav with it he fell down dead. I’ve never seen a shock wand do that.”

“How lethal a shock wand is depends on how strong the Singer is. Raeha is quite strong,” observed Maiho.

“She isn’t a Singer. It was illegal for her to sing,” said Thiona with a frown.

“It is completely legal for a singer caste member to Sing under the supervision of the Song Master. Or do you think that her husband is likely to refuse her permission?” asked Maiho.

“Your father wasn’t supervised by the Song Master when he shocked poor Natlard,” complained Belshat. “He still has not completely recovered. Winfur hasn’t recovered from what your mother did to him either.”

“If I had realised earlier exactly why Natlard and Winfur were banned from the clinic, they would have other problems,” said Maiho. When Nolwark described how well her parent had faired when they were threaten by Belshat’s thugs she had been surprised. She had not been aware that her father carried a shock wand or knew how to use it. It also sounded as if her mother had used reversed healing on the other assailant. That was a technique that she wouldn’t have thought her mother had the skill to use. “They are both free complain to the guard. Of course they might have to explain why they attacked my parents.”

“They only wanted to talk,” said Belshat.

“Threaten and intimidate more likely,” said Maiho.

“None of this helps my aunt,” complained Foenad. “We are willing to admit fault and pay compensation.”

“I have already told you the price,” stated Maiho.

“She is an old woman. Surely you can’t be so heartless to inflict this on her?” whined Foenad.

“This is the fourth time in the last few five-days that senior family has attacked Singers and their families. This time Raeha actually died, and although I saved her the odds of her making a significant recovery are not good. We have run out of patience. There must be real payment this time,” said Maiho. “Besides Huglek still wants Huifa dead. Now is a good time to ask for mercy. He is still grateful that she is alive and has not given up hope that she will recover. If you wait too long her life will not be worth a cracked chip”.

“This is how you help us resolve the matter?! By making threats?” asked Foenad.

“I could just let Huglek kill you all,” said Maiho.

“Let him try,” blustered Foenad.

“You should listen to the rest of Nolwark’s story before you decide to do that,” suggested Maiho. She nodded at Nolwark to continue.

“The girl laid about with her shock wand both Bagtav and Menfus went down. Because of this Huglek had time to draw a crystal weapon. Rendec and Coblug just came apart in fountains of blood.”

“What do you mean fountains of blood?” asked Thiona. “People don’t just explode for no reason.”

Nolwark looked at Maiho uncertain how to describe what he had seen.

“Was the weapon similar to this?” asked Maiho, pulling out the needle flinger that she had obtained from Huglek at the council meeting, out of her bag.

“Yes, but it was bigger,” responded Nolwark, grateful at being asked a question that he could answer.

“This weapon fires crystal needles,” said Maiho. “In the hands of a Singer as strong as Huglek it will be not only fatal to anyone Huglek aims it at, but it will also make a mess of the body. You can examine what is left of Huifa’s murder squad after the guard has found all the pieces.”

“Thats okay,” said Belshat hurriedly. “We’ll take you word for it.”

“Speak for yourself,” retorted Thiona.

“Are we just going to let her throw around accusations like murder squad?” complained Foenad.

“Shut up, Foenad,” ordered Belshat.

“Did you see Raeha get shot?” asked Maiho.

“No. I saw Huglek take a quarrel to the shoulder though.  Maksim was hit and I dragged him to safety. I was hit in the arm as I dragged him into a side corridor,” said Nolwark.

“It was probably a ricochet otherwise you might have lost your arm,” commented Maiho.

“So you ran,” yelled Foenad. “Why should we trust anything you say? You cursed coward.”

“I had to take Maksim to the clinic.” said Nolwark looking at the floor. “He could have died.” 

“You both would have died if you were a faction slower,” said Maiho. “Foenad, stop trying to intimidate the witness. Nolwark both you and Maksim will be protected, there is no reason to be afraid.”

“It’s you who has threaten and bribed him to say these ridiculous lies,” argued Foenad.

“You have two other witnesses in your hands,” retorted Maiho. “They will confirm what Nolwark is saying.”

“Give it up, Foenad,” sighed Belshat. “We are beyond denial at this stage.” Belshat grimaced as if he swallowed something unpleasant. “Perhaps we should think about Maiho’s suggestion.”

“That kind of precedent,” Thiona hesitantly started. “Killing or enslaving Huifa ourselves is one thing, but letting outsiders do it makes me uncomfortable. If we give them Huifa who’s next.”

“If you stop attacking Singers, no-one’s next,” growled Maiho. “You are the ones who started this.”

“I thought you hated Huifa, Thiona,” queried Belshat. “Surely you would love a chance to get rid of her.”

“And you’re her friend. Remind me not to get too friendly with you lest I suffer the same fate,” observed Thiona.

“You can’t do this! It isn’t right,” exclaimed Foenad.

“And attacking our friends and family in order to get more rods and stones is right?” asked Maiho.

“If we give up Huifa isn’t that saying we are afraid of Huglek?” asked Thiona.

“Accepting the reality of the situation, is no sin,” said Belshat.

“Don’t tell me that your afraid of this night rat?” said Thiona. “A crossbow bolt in the back will kill anyone.”

“No-one’s shooting anyone,” stated Maiho. “This is the kind of thing that got us in this situation in the first place.”

“And who’s going to kill him?” asked Belshat. “You don’t want to risk your precious cousins and friends.”

“I know someone,” said Thiona.

Maiho groaned and put her head in her hand. “Do I have to kill somebody in order to have anyone listen to me?” she asked.

“If you want to kill him you need to stab him though the heart or though the eye into the brain,” commented Foenad.

“What nonsense are spouting you now, Foenad?” asked Thiona.

“Foenad is right. Cursed are suppose to be hard to kill,” said Belshat. “People tried to kill Viune plenty of times and Huglek had no trouble with dealing with ten enforcers, even though according to Nolwark’s story he was hit at least once.”

“If there are any more Singers attacked -“ Maiho started.

“By Cursed, are you talking about the Evil Singers in plays that have glowing eyes, cackle while rubbing there hands and always get killed by the hero in the end of the play?” asked Thiona.

“In real life they kill the hero, not the other way around,” stated Belshat.

“Do you still need us, Healer?” asked one the guards. Nolwark and both his guards looked very uncomfortable with the conversation.

After confirming with Belshat, Foenad and Thiona that they were finished questioning Nolwark, Maiho dismissed them with a wave and they exited the room. She had wanted to use Nolwark to make a few more points, but she gave it up as a lost cause.

“Those two are Cursed too. Thats why they want to help Huglek,” said Foenad, pointing at Laivo and Maiho.

“Nonsense! They are both too young. The Cursed have to have been senior singers for at least ten hundred-days. Though I must admit they {b}do{/b} look a {i}bit{/i} like villains in a play.” admitted Belshat.  He frowned. “How {b}is{/b} performing healing suppose to give you eyes and hair like that?” he asked.

“It was a rather intense healing session,” said Maiho. “It is not everyday I bring someone back from the dead.” She reflected that although Foenad was naive, and to put it kindly, ‘limited’ he was the only one to see the obvious. Belshat and Thiona even though they were suppose to be fairly smart could not see the truth right in front of them. Since she could not hide her and Laivo condition she had intended to make a virtue out of necessity and use the fact that they were both Sources or in Laivo’s case close to being a Source, to frighten the family heads into submission. However to her disappointment Belshat and Thiona seemed to accept her ridiculous explanations without hesitation. It was probably all for the best. While revealing their level of power might solve a few short term problems, having it known that she was a Source would probably cause too many problems latter down the track, especially with Yeona and Kelvin.
 
“You need to find another joke that one is getting tired out” said Belshat.
 
Maiho sighed, why was it that of everything she said, it was the fact that she had restarted Raeha’s heart that he had trouble believing? It wasn’t the first time she had resuscitated someone, although admittedly it was the first time she had resuscitated someone that was so far gone.

Foenad played a phase on his flute dimming the wall crystals. The room was plunged into darkness relieved only by the blue light emitted by Laivo’s and Maiho’s patterns, eyes and hair. A chair crashed to the floor. Maiho hummed under her breath and the wall crystals brightened again. Belshat had retreated to the other end of the room, pressing himself against the wall. 

“See! I told you, they are both minions of the Leveller,” shouted Foenad.

“Please! It’s just luminescent paint,” declared Thiona. “You see it all the time in plays.”

“That’s not paint. Are you actually looking at them?” asked Belshat hoasely, not moving from his position at the wall. He was breathing heavily. His eyes fixated in a kind of horror at Laivo and Maiho. 

Laivo had her arms crossed. She looked very uncomfortable at the attention she was getting. She leaned over and whispered to Maiho “Do I have to be there?”

“Just listen and learn,” whisper back Maiho. “You are going to have to do this yourself soon.”

“What?!” squeaked Laivo, her eyes widening in alarm.

Maiho made a brief shushing gesture before returning her attention towards the senior family heads.  

“Are you Cursed, Maiho?” asked Belshat, his voice trembling slightly.

“Cursed is such stupid term,” stated Maiho. “What kind of curse gives people eternal youth and great power?”

“Their powers are given to them by Leveller in order to overturn the natural order of things,” accused Foenad.

“The Leveller isn’t even a real god,” responded Maiho. “Not one of the five, anyway.”

“The Leveller brought the great plague in order to sow chaos and end the benevolent rule of the Lords of the Levels,” Foenad announced. The words had a well practice feel as if he had heard them or said them many times. “She created the Singers to bring the five families down low.”

“Benevolent? You call the Level Lords’ rule benevolent? You must have attended different history classes from the ones that I did,” Maiho said. “besides the first Singers came at least a hundred hundred-days after the plague.”

“Maiho, please,” pleaded Belshat. “Are you? Are you like Viune, like Huglek?”

Maiho eyes narrowed. “I prefer the term Blessed,” she said.

“Whatever you call it. Just -“ Belshat stumbled over his words. He trembled. He looked ready to collapse.
	
“Their is no need to panic, Belshat. I am still the same girl you have always known,” said Maiho. “True, you have been involved in four  attempted assaults, on myself, my friends and my family in as many five-days, so may be a little alarm is called for.” A wicked smile escaped, touching her eyes.

Belshat shuddered. “You look so much like her.”

“Who?” asked Maiho.

“Viune.” replied Belshat.

“Keep it together, Belshat,” rebuked Thiona. “Weren’t you just telling me about the dignity of the family heads.”

“The gods will not allow the faithful to fall,” said Foenad, his words had a oft repeated almost ritualistic quality.

Maiho ignored Foenad, focusing instead on Belshat. “If you’re asking whether I will still look like this hundreds of hundred-days from now, the answer is yes. If you’re asking whether I can do things that most other Singers can’t do, the answer is yes,” she replied. “If you’re asking whether I can kill you anytime I want to, the answer is also yes.”

“But you’re still only the Junior Healer,” said Belshat. “How is this possible?”

“It is just a matter of talent and practice,” said Maiho. “Besides am I really still Junior Healer? It seems as if I already have more responsibilities than a Junior Healer normally has.”

“And your friend?” asked Belshat.

“Laivo is close, but she is still least half a hundred day from becoming a true Blessed,” replied Maiho. Laivo startled at that and opened her mouth to say something. Maiho shook her head, indicating that she should ask later.

Belshat covered his mouth with his hand. He closed his eyes. “Alright we accept your demands,” he said at last.

“No. This is not right,” shouted Foenad.

“Belshat?” queried Thiona.

“Just go along. I will explain later,” Belshat urged.

“If you think you are going to buy Huifa through some intermediary and let her live in luxury while still controling the 4th family behind the scenes? Well that’s not going to happen.” stated Maiho. “And no I am not reading your mind.” 

A startled Belshat opened his mouth but nothing came out. Thiona was tapping her fingers impatiently, while Foenad was vibrating with fury.

“As Naedri wills it! I have given my advice and you have ignored it,” said Thiona looking pointedly at Bleshat. She crossed her arms, lent back and turned her head away. She was ready to wash her hands of the entire distasteful affair.

“Can’t you see you are playing into the Leveller’s hand?” begged Foenad.

“What are your plans? Who are you going let to buy her then?” croaked Belshat.

“The clinic will buy her to look after poor Raeha,” replied Maiho. “If Raeha recovers she will be set free. If Raeha dies she’ll go to the Shambles to serve The Gardener.” In Maeho’s judgement Huifa would rather be left out in sunlight than live in the Shambles.

“The Gardener doesn’t exist,” protested Foenad.

Laivo groaned and put her head on the table. Maiho had to kick her to get her to sit up straight.

“It would be interesting to watch you trying to explain to Torlmri that she doesn’t exist.  She doesn’t like the other Families much, so your Aunt better make sure Raeha doesn’t die,” retorted Maiho. 

“We will die before we allow my Aunt to fall into the hands of you Leveller loving monsters,” said Foenad in a strangled voice. 

“Your welcome to,” replied Maiho. “I encourage it.”

Foenad sprang out of his chair clutching his belt knife. He looked pale and swayed slightly, fury fighting with fear.

“Sit down,” commanded Maiho. “Don’t make a fool of yourself.”

Foenad collapsed back into his chair. He sunk into himself as all pretence of defiance evaporated.

“Is it a good idea to make him head of the 4th family?” asked Maiho, appearing hesitant for the first time.

“So it starts,” said Thiona. “Is Foenad going to be the second sacrifice you ask for?”

“None of us want inter-village trade disrupted,” said Maiho. “I am asking for your advice.” She glanced at Belshat and Thiona. “Can he do the job?” she asked.

“It’s a little late to be worried about that,” scoffed Thiona. “As to his suitability; what to you think?”

“I think he is weak, mentally unstable, and as dense as Fort wood,” admitted Maiho.

Foenad straightened in his seat. “You - “ he protested.

“Pipe down before you make a bigger fool of yourself,” ordered Maiho.

“You can’t - ” he started again before freezing as Maiho lent forward. He turned toward Thiona, his eyes beseeching her for support. Thiona snorted and rolled her eyes.

“Belshat, you are looking untidy over there. Come sit down,” Maiho ordered.

“I would rather not,” replied Belshat.

“What are you afraid of?” asked Maiho. “Am I so terrifying?”

“Viune - “ he started. He closed his eyes and continued “She killed my cousin.”

“I am sorry about your cousin. I promise not to kill anyone today. Will you please sit down?”

“She touched him and his patterns moved,” muttered Belshat recalling the horror. “He collapsed. Just like that. Dead in an instant.”

“You know me. You know I don’t randomly attack people. Will you please sit down?”

“Except Bardre,” pointed out Belshat.

“Bardre is fine,” said Maiho though gritted teeth. “She will be back on her feet soon.” Couldn’t anything happen in this village without everybody knowing about it? “Will you please sit down?”

“You worthless tube parasite, stop being a total embarrassment to the senior families,” growled Thiona.

Belshat shuffled hesitantly back to his seat. 

“Right,” Maiho sighed. “I need you two to tell me, if Foenad can do the job and if not who can.”

“If you are so worried about the caravans, you should keep Huifa on as head of the 4th Family,” sniped Thiona.

“That’s not possible,” Maiho said firmly.

Belshat swallowed then said nervously “Huifa’s been head of the 4th family for too long. All his cousins are the same. None of them are used to thinking for themselves. Huifa’s son moved to Hidden Springs. He had some ability.”

“Why are you telling her this?” asked Thiona angrily. “That’s family business.”

“You’re right,” replied Maiho. “I don’t need to worry about this. Thiona you mentor him. Make sure he doesn’t do something stupid like piss off all the caravan owners and get Waterless Shore blacklisted.”

Thiona and Foenad both immediately protested.

“I don’t need a nursemaid,” complained Foenad.

“I am not your lackey,” protested Thiona.

“When he's not begging or whining, he's ranting about a cult that hasn't existed for 800 hundred days,” said Maiho. "Tell me I don't have cause to worry."

Belshat and Thiona looked bit embarrassed. “What - ?” Maiho studied them for a moment. "Don't tell me that the both you also believe in this nonsense?” she asked.

"The Leveller is the source of all woe,” announced Foenad.

“What was it you said before? Scapegoat?” asked Thiona. “Sounds like the Leveller. She gets blamed for everything.”

"I have always thought of the Leveller as a metaphor for the desire of the less able to tear down their betters,” opined Belshat. He had already recovered some of his confidence after his fright.

“You think of yourselves as being better?” asked Maiho.

“The white fish always rises to the top of the stew,” agreed Thiona.

“Breeding counts. Do you think you would be where you are if you weren’t Viune’s niece?” asked Belshat.

As if facing dead, hunger and maiming in Lost Soul had nothing to do with it. Not to mention the repairs to her hand and the constant singing to try and restore her colour. With an effort Maiho opened her fists and unclenched her teeth. “Right, look I can't get into this with you now,” said Maiho pinching the bridge of her nose. Not an get any rest this dawn sleep, anyway. “The important thing is that you - “ she bit down on the colourful description that she wanted to use. “That the senior families agree to stop attacking Singers or Singer caste members. Votes in the council are to be obtained with the usual bribery, political alliances and skullduggery. No more violence, threats or intimidation. I am fine with the families killing each other off, but when it comes to outsiders you are to keep your claws to yourselves, Understood?” She speared each family head with her gaze.

Reluctantly they all nodded even Foenad. Perhaps he had sense of self preservation after all. Although perhaps their agreement had more to do with the fact that while the senior families still had plenty of thugs with swords, spears and bows, most of the thugs who could be trusted to keep their mouths shut were dead or injured. 

“We will address any further problems with the 4th family if they arise and Thiona I am counting on you to make sure they don’t arise,” said Maiho. 

“Okay maybe he does need some hand holding,” conceded Thiona. “But I am not taking him potty.” She snorted at her own joke.

“You will all pay,” muttered Foenad panning the table before looking daggers at Thiona. 

‘Maybe I was wrong about him having a sense of self preservation,’ thought Maiho.

Thiona frowned. “After you have proven yourself, you can give me attitude, until then keep a civil tongue,” she warned.

Belshat chortled. 

Thiona snapped at Belshat, “You can keep your opinions to yourself.”

“Did I say anything?” asked Belshat.

“What you didn’t say was left unsaid in a very loud manner,” accused Thiona.

“Moving on,” said Maiho. “I will bring Huifa in before Dusk Sleep. She can stew a little bit.” She sighed. “Next cycle is going to be very busy for me, however I am the only one who can bring her in without bloodshed.” With her shard hunters and her lock picking skills it should be easy.

“We asked, but you never told us whether Huglek has agreed to give up his vendetta against Huifa if we do this,” Belshat pointed out.

“He agreed in principle,” said Maiho.

“You mean he thought we would never agree, so he would never have to keep his promise,” said Belshat. “Now that we {b}have{/b} agreed he may change his mind.”

“Then you won’t have Huifa’s betrayal on your conscience. Your hands will be clean,” said Maiho. “Huglek will take care of Huifa and that will be that.”

Belshat frowned. “There is no need to be like that,” he said. “We did what you wanted and now your dissing us for it.”

“Apologies,” said Maiho. 

Maiho cleared her throat “Next item,” her expression became serious. “I want you out of the village on the next available caravan, Belshat.”

“Fuck you!!” Belshat yelled slamming his fists on the table he rose half out of his seat. “I did everything you wanted. You can’t do this to me.”

Thiona laughed. “I told you. I warned you, but you didn’t listen. First Huifa, then Foenad, now you!” She stopped laughing and gave Maiho an accessing glance. “So, when is it going to be my turn.”

“As long as you don’t mess with me or mine, I won’t mess with you,” said Maiho.

“But you did mess with me,” said Thiona. “You messed with my livelihood.”

“You have been taking advantage of the farmers and craftsmen for a long time and made a lot of money from it,” said Maiho. “Surely you didn’t think that would last forever.”

“I only took - “ started Thiona.

“You threaten to turn my life upside down then ignore me,” accused Belshat too impatient to hold back. Thiona glared at him unhappy about being interrupted.

Maiho stood up. “I don’t make threats,” she warned. Belshat sat back down cringing away from her. “Four attacks in as many weeks and you were involved with all of them. I would be a fool to let you stay.”

“I wasn’t involved with that second attack on you. It was all Laurvit’s fault. They went against my orders,” Belshat protested. “And the attack against Huglek, Huifa wouldn’t listen to reason, she said that he had betrayed her. It was like it was personal for her. She seemed more upset about him becoming younger and remarrying than about the vote. It wasn’t my fault.”

“But in the end you helped her. As for the second attack on me, they were your men, so it was your fault. I notice that you didn’t deny the first attack on me, or more importantly the attack on my parents.” As Maiho leaned forward Belshat shank back into his chair.

“Natlard and Winfur only wanted to talk to your parents. There was no need to cripple them.”

“Your two lackeys threatened my parents, trying to intimidate them,” growled Maiho. “Your thugs will recover. If I was there they probably wouldn’t.”

“My family, everything that is important to me, is here. Please don’t do this to me,” begged Belshat. “I do anything.”

“You’re a widower. You should go on the Grand Tour. Find a wife. I am doing you a favour. You are safer out of the nest. What if Huglek found out you were the one who crippled his wife? Your life wouldn’t be worth wolf leavings.”

“You wouldn’t!”

“I wouldn’t have to,” said Maiho. “You know now impossible it is to keep a secret in this village.”

“I’ll keep out of his way. I’ll take my chances. I would rather die in the company of my loved ones, than wander alone as an exile.” 

“Truely you are a sad piece of shit,” commented Thiona.

“Fuck you, Thiona!” shouted Belshat. Thiona laughed. “Maiho, I’ll do anything. I’ll go get Desiad from Hidden Spring. You were worried about the 4th family under Foenad. Desiad is a competent boy. I will be able to talk him into coming back I know it.”

“Desiad killed his own brother and sister. The 4th family will never accept him back,” barked Foenad.

“That was never proven. And their are plenty of 4th family members that would prefer Desiad to Foenad,” argued Belshat.

“Wolf shit,” said Foenad.

“Hidden Springs, uhm,” muttered Maiho. She sat thoughtfully for a while. “Alright you can go, I want you to give messages to Moene of Hidden Springs, Finrel of Indigo Shadow and Loshven of Blue Moon. Moene and Finrel will probably both want to question you about the political situation in Waterless Shore and about me, you are to be truthful and honest.”

“You won’t regret this,” said Belshat not hiding the relief in his voice. “I have heard about Moene and Finrel, but I had never heard of Loshven.”

“Loshven is a friend. He is a fellow Lost Child and is currently Junior Priest at Blue Moon.”

“What about Desiad?” Belshat looked smug as if he had gotten away with something. 

Foenad opened his mouth as if he wanted to say something. Maiho didn’t give him the chance. “Have him meet me at the Blue Moon gather, I will be there for the Council of Councils remember.”

“How could I forget?”

“I want to talk to him before I make a decision. Make sure you get to Blue Moon a few days before the gather. I want to give Loshven advance warning that I am coming.”

Foenad was ready to explode again. “If you do - “ he began.

“First lesson from your nursemaid,” Thiona interrupted. “Recognise when you have lost. Also Maiho is giving you the chance to prove yourself. There is plenty of time before the Council of Councils for you to overcome the bad first impression that you have given her.” She turned to Maiho. “Right.”

Maiho raised her eyebrows in surprise. “Right.”

“Your not going with Desiad?” asked Belshat in confusion.

“I haven’t decided yet.”

“So what am I suppose to tell Desiad?”

“I will send you a message before you leave Hidden Springs.”

“How?”

“I have my ways,” announced Maiho. “Lets wrap this up. We will talk again at the council meeting before Dusk Sleep. Foenad you will exercise Huifa’s vote for the time being.”

“Who died and made you Level Lord?” asked Foenad.

“Raeha died, that’s who,” said Maiho. “It’s not wise to set fire to the net tree your sitting in.”

“What the fuck is that suppose to mean?”  asked Foenad.

“It means that if you are tapped in a small day nest for 50 hours a day and there is no place to run too, it’s unwise to start attacking your fellow trapees.”

“The potty mouth has a point,” said Thiona. “If the net tree is on fire, to use your analogy, shouldn’t the entire council have been at this meeting?”

“This is between the senior families and the Singers,” declared Maiho. The last thing Maiho needed was Yeoni, Kevlin or even Nargre seeing her threatening and bullying Belshat, Foenad and Thiona. Yeoni in particular would have freaked out when Foenad turned out the lights and Laivo and her started glowing.

“But you and your twin sister here are the only Singers here,” pointed out Thiona. 

“Who do you want? Huglek would kill the lot of you for what you did to his wife. My mother would ban the all of you from the clinic for life for similar reasons. I don’t think Logwan counts as a Singer at this point. My father is a teacher for the Gods sake and he stood up to Belshat’s thugs. He takes care of children all day. But Logwan, who is supposed to control the war Artificia if we are attacked, he is bullied and manipulated though threats. How can we trust such a coward to protect us?” asked Maiho, her voice rising and her face flushed.

“I suppose he is the next person on your list,” commented Thiona sarcastically. “So when are you going to get of him.”

“I don’t need to do anything,” said Maiho. “He has failed in the only thing his masters need him for.”

“What is that?” Thiona asked.

“They needed his vote in the Council of Council, but of course, now he doesn’t have one.”

There was a uncomfortable silence in the room.

“It is getting late. I am sure all of us will appreciate getting some rest this Dawn Sleep. I will set off for Indigo Shadow within the five-day,” said Belshat.

“You will set off at dusk on the first available caravan,” ordered Maiho.

“But the Council of Council - “ started Belshat.

“I am sure that Desiad and everyone else will appreciate the advanced notice,” said Maiho. “And I can’t guarantee your safety if you stay. Not if Huglek were to take an interest in you.”

“But, But - “ Belshat stuttered.

“Give it up, Belshat,” said Thiona. “You were doomed from the start.” She paused then continued, “Alright lets end it here. You all need your beauty sleep. Especially you Belshat, what did someone beat you with an ugly stick, when you were a child.”

“Fuck you, Thiona.” growled Belshat.

Maiho stood up, yawning. “I have to agree. Not about the bit about the ugly stick. But about the bit about get out of here.”

Laivo sprang out of her chair and was half way to the door before forcing herself to wait for Maiho. 

Thiona cajoled Foenad and Belshat out of their seats and then out the door.

“Aren’t you coming with us?” Belshat asked Thiona as she pushed him out the door.

“I need to ask Maiho about something,” replied Thiona. 

“What are you up to?” asked Belshat.

“None of your fucking business,” yelled Thiona as she slammed the door in his face.

“Thiona, I’m not in the mood to deal with you at the moment,” pleaded Maiho. “Can we do this next cycle.”

“It won’t take long,” reassured Thiona. “It’s just that before ugly stick interrupted us we were having a very important discussion about not messing with each other.”

“Is this the part were you threaten me because I most definitely am not in the mood for that.”

“Oh Gods no! I would rather use a razor claw as a nipple claw.”

Maiho winced. She could have done without that image. ‘Why couldn’t she just say yes or no?’ she thought.

“Get to the point you awful, awful woman,” growled Laivo.

“No need to get your breech-clout in a twist, Maiho Two.”

“The name is Laivo, you - “

Maiho grabbed Laivo by shoulder. “Your not helping.” She turned to Thiona and barked “Get on with it.”

“You strike me as someone who like things orderly. With two new family heads things are libel to get disrupted. You could use someone to smooth things over. Someone in your corner,” argued Thiona.

“That does sound like a threat.”

“No, No. Quite the opposite in fact. An opportunity, an overture of friendship. All I ask is that you don’t mess with me or mine. Especially not mess with my earnings. I will even give you my vote.”

“All I can promise you is to talk to you, before making any big decision that is specific to merchants.”

“Well that is a start I guess. We will talk more later,” said Thiona. “Do you want me to mentor Theoka as well as Foenad?”

“No. We are friends. We are both the same age and both in the Guard. I’ll take her under my wing.” While Theoka loved her father Belshat, what she did not love is how he hovered over her, and how he interfered with her life. By the time Belshat came back from the little errants that she was going to send him, he would find it harder than he expected to regain control of the 1st family. After they met up in Blue Moon maybe she would send him off to Foragers Sacrifice in green territory with a message for her friend Tavia or maybe even further to Truthful Wind in black territory to her friend Urthrem. In fact why not both.

“I’ll leave you then,” said Thiona gracefully exiting the room.

“That was awful,” complained Laivo. 

“At least you now know why my mother avoids this kind thing like the plague,” said Maiho.

“This is the last time I let you talk me into one of your crazy schemes.”
















 















