Chapter 9 : Casualties

++++++
{b}Location{/b} Southern Healing Clinic, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Morning 1900 hours (46 hours before dusk) {br}

“Surely this many people didn’t fall sick in the last two hours.” remarked Maiho as she counted the patients in the waiting room. 

Laivo commented “Some patients don’t mind waiting a little longer if they can get you instead of your mother.”

“Is that why the number of patients turning up on my shift has slowly but steadily increased over time?”

Laivo rolled her eyes. “Word gets out. Shall I send the first one in?”

Maiho pointed over her shoulder without looking. “That one. I can feel his pain from here.”

“Bozzak?”

Maiho turned to look at the patient who stood hunched over protecting his abdomen. He had enough colour that his pain rolled off him and set her teeth on edge. “The rat faced boy who used to call me names and hit me on the arm?” The large solidly build man didn’t look very like the skinny, obnoxious boy that Maiho remembered.

“Until you broke his nose, I don’t remember him bothering you after that.”

“Can you believe that my mother made me apologize to him? Send him in anyway, if you don’t he’ll give me a headache.”

A little distance helped with the second-hand pain she was feeling as she entered the inner temple of the clinic. She strode to the blue crystal altar wishing she could lay down on it. The pain in the back of her head increased. She spun around to see Laivo helping Bozzak into the inner temple. She never had this problem with non-Singer caste members.

“Senior Healer Telvra treated me, curing the pain, but afterwards the pain came back worse than ever,” Bozzak was telling Laivo.

Laivo whispered something in his ear causing a startled expression to cross his face. “I greatly regret if the misbehavior of my youth caused you distress. I am very sorry,” said the suffering patient.

Maiho blinked at this. That certainly wasn’t the way she remembered him talking. “You are going to owe me a favour.”

“Anything; just stop the pain.”

Maiho and Laivo guided him to the altar and helped him “Oh, I would heal you no matter what. The favour is for not giving you pointy ears or earlobes that hang down to your knee or - “ a smile lit up Maiho’s face as she paused, “have you ever wondered what you would look like as a girl?” Bozzak’s expression as he sank into the crystal altar was priceless. Maiho sighed with relief as his pain eased it was only then that she realized that she hadn’t sung the activation song.

“You couldn’t really do any of that could you?”

“Changing the shape of the ears should be easy. Changing him into a girl would require several sessions.”

“Could you make me beautiful?”

“You are already beautiful.”

Laivo reddened. “Do you really think so?” she asked.

“Of course. You are prettiest girl I know.”

Laivo turned away and muttered, “Except for Feibu.”

Maiho ignored this and started lecturing “Bozzak’s pain is caused by inflammation of a small organ that is located near where the small intestine joins the large intestine. Within Bozzak’s colour there exists an image of how his body should be. I call it the template which is a woodworking term. I could use this template to force his body back to a more normal state. However if I did this his symptoms could re-occur, he could even die if the small organ ruptures. If however I alter the template so it does not contain this troublesome organ, then apply the altered template to his body, we will see a more permanent solution to this problem. The book from which I obtained this procedure insisted that the patient suffered no harm from the removal of this organ.”

“That sounds very interesting, but I need to go back to the greeter’s desk.”

“Wait, can you get your cousin Carele to fill in for you?” asked Maiho.

“Why? This doesn’t have anything to do with one of your crazy schemes does it?”

“We need to start on your training. I obtained permission from the village to start you as a trainee healer.”

“No, No, No! I can’t believe you would do this to me. Didn’t it occur to you to ask me first before you involved me in one of your insane ideas?” cried Laivo as she stormed out of the inner temple.

“That could have gone better,” Maiho muttered as she applied herself to healing Bozzak. As she altered his template she resisted the temptation to give him a ratty nose and buck teeth. By the time she had finished imposing her will on his flesh, enough of the crystal energy had leaked into her to give her a spring in her step and a brighter outlook on life. She helped Bozzak off the altar and out the door.

In the waiting room Laivo was still angry and was avoiding her and kept on avoiding her throughout the shift. 

With each patient Maiho absorbed more vitality. Laivo prioritised the patients, sent them in when their turn came, and collected chips from those that could pay. However when Maiho tried to talk to her she always found a reason to be somewhere else. Laivo had enough colour that Maiho couldn't put her out of her mind. She was a constant ache in Maiho's head. She couldn't read emotion as well as physical sensations, but whatever Laivo was feeling was turbulent, unsettling and distressing.

Maiho had had enough and was just about to grab her by the neck and haul her off to a consulting room for a talking to when two blood covered blue wave tribesmen staggered into the clinic.

Laivo rushed over with bandages, in the pressing urgency of the patient’s condition she seemed to have temporarily forgotten that she was avoiding Maiho. 

"What happened?"

"An explosion in Stink Street. Some chemist experiment gone wrong."

Maiho took one look at the wounds and told Laivo. "Get our archer friend and meet me in the inner temple."

"Why do you need an archer?" Asked the one with the wounded arm sounding alarmed.

"That's just her nickname," she said as she hoisted the man with the gut wound over her shoulder. She had picked up enough vitality during the shift that his weight was no problem. 

The shock of seeing her pick up his friend like he weighed nothing drove away his worry about what she requested of Laivo.

Marching into the inner temple she tipped the seriously injured man into the altar. The other man gaped in astonishment.

"The crystal just flowed like water."

"Yes, it does that."

"But, when your mother heals - "

"Yes, my Mother is less flashy. It's just a matter of style. It doesn't mean anything." Maiho lied. "The altar will keep him stable. Why don’t I have a look at that arm?” She steered him over the side of the room.

“What do they call you?” she asked.

“Nolwark.”

“And your friend is - ?”

“Why do need you know?” Nolwark asked.

“It would hardly be professional to greet him when he wakes with ‘Hey you! Almost dead guy.’”

“He’s called Maksim.”

“And how did you get these wounds?” she asked.

“As I said before there was an explosion. Why all the questions?”

Maiho reached behind her, she drew her sword and had it at his throat before he had a chance to react.

“Those wounds were not produced by an explosion. I suggest you start telling the truth.”

Laivo and Nargre burst into the inner temple.

"You are very fond of pulling that out and waving it about, aren't you,” noted Nargre.

“The village councilors are attacking each other.”

“What did you do?” accused Nargre.

Maiho was about to say something biting when she realized it probably {b}was{/b} her fault. “You’re not being helpful,” she complained. “This man, Nolwark and his friend Maksim came in with needle wounds.” Seeing that they did not understand she continued. “They were injured by a very dangerous, very rare Singer weapon, one in the Song Master procession.” She turned to the wounded man, “You attacked the Song Master.”

“Who is to say he didn’t attack us?” argued Nolwark.

“Don’t annoy me,” warned Maiho. ”You two got off fairly lightly I am guessing you were at the back. How many people are lying dead in the corridors?”

Nolwark tightened his lips and looked away. 

“How many of you attacked Huglek?” Maiho persisted.

Nolwark shook this head then yelped as Maiho’s sword darted forward and nicked his ear.

“Ten, there were ten of us,” Nolwark answered hastily.

“So there are eight dead tribesmen lying in a pool of their own blood stinking up the passageways.”

“I don't know. Maksim and I just ran. The girl hit Gadnow with some sort of crystal rod and he went down, then three of the guys nearest to the song master exploded in a shower of blood. We knew it was time to get out of there.”

“The girl, was she thin with long hair, narrow face, small breasts and a spiral stone necklace?”

“Yes, she was supposed to be his wife.”

“She is. Why did you think you could get away with threatening a Singer?”

“We never used to have any problems.”

“You have threatened Singers before?”

“Logwan had to be reminded every now and then to share the profits, the greedy dastard.”

“And Logwan put up with that. Viune would have to torn you apart.”

“Viune was before my time and Logwan is certainly no Viune. I never had a problem putting the scare into someone before you and your parents.”

“You threatened my parents!” shouted Maiho

“Huuurgk!” Nolwark gurgled as his face turned purple.

“Maiho! He's not going be able to talk if you kill him,” urged Laivo.

Dimly through the red haze of her anger Maiho realized that her left hand was gripping Nolwark’s neck underneath the jaw. She relaxed her grip and tried to calm her rage. Nolwark fell to his knees and started wheezing as he struggled to fill his lungs.

Maiho opened and closed her hand reflexively. She was surprised she had that much strength so soon. It was only a third of the way through the shift and her skin was barely tingling. Perhaps she had underestimated how much vitality she was holding.

“You can’t just kill everyone who annoys you,” growled Nargre.

“So speaks someone who shot her lover in the stomach with an arrow,” returned Maiho.

“You going to bring that up every twenty tocks? It’s getting tired fast,” shouted Nargre.

“You two stop it. If I understand the situation correctly we have bigger problems,” pleaded Laivo.

Maiho glanced at Nargre semi-apologetically. “I know I have a temper, just try not to poke the wolf with a stick.”

It looked like Nargre was about say something that they would all regret, when they were interrupted by Huglek bursting into the room. He strode into the room with a limp figure cradled in his arms, which he laid on the altar, oblivious to the fact that the altar already had an occupant.

Maiho gently tapped Nolwark’s head against the wall. It was exactly the wrong thing to do and could give him concussion or even kill him, but she desperately needed one less random variable in the complex situation. She couldn’t spare the time to think about him.

Delayed by dealing with Nolwark, Maiho had barely made one step to cross to altar when Laivo reached them. Raeha had a crossbow bolt penetrating her chest, protruding just above her right breast. She was pale and her chest was not moving. Huglek was sobbing. Laivo had her hand on Raeha’s neck checking for a pulse. Like a bad dream Maiho knew what she was going to say.

“I’m sorry - “ Laivo began. ‘Don’t!’ Maiho mouthed at her. But Laivo wasn’t looking in Maiho’s direction. “She’s gone.” Laivo finished.

Huglek knelt down bringing Raeha’s hand to his lips. “I will make them pay. I swear to you I’ll make her pay,” he said raggedly.

Looking at Huglek’s ravaged face, Maiho wanted to tell him that she hadn’t given up, that she was going try and restart her heart. However she couldn’t do it. Giving him hope when the odds were so slim was impossibly cruel. 

Huglek turned away and stepped towards the exit. Maiho with a silent apology to Maksim, pulled him out of the altar from the side and let Raeha sink into the altar. The altar had been healing Maksim slowly even without Maiho’s direction, using his template as a guide to the healing. She hoped that would be enough to stabilise him. However Raeha’s body was on an altar and there was no way, no matter how hopeless things seemed, that Maiho was not going to use that altar to try and heal her.

Expanding her senses Maiho could see that Raeha’s template was fading from her colour. The altar recognized her body as dead flesh and tried to absorb her. Maiho strengthened her template and forced the altar to see the strengthened template as reality and to make it a reality.

Maiho opened her eyes and removed a message crystal from her waist pouch and tossed it at Nargre, “Use this to talk to me,” she gasped through clenched teeth as she divided her attention. “Follow him quickly. I think he’s going to Huifa’s.” There was so much more she needed to tell her. However neither of them had the time. Nargre would just have to figure it out on her own.

Maiho turned her attention back to Raeha. Her template rippled and distorted under the stress. She channeled the energy of the healing into Raeha’s body, imposing her will on template and body, forcing them to become one. At first the energy poured out of the body as fast as Maiho funneled it in. However she managed to restart the heart and then keep it beating and the healing started to take. Stabilizing Raeha seemed to take forever, but finally she felt confident that her heart should keep beating without assistance. She brought Raeha out of the altar until she was lying on top.

Her own body felt numb and so light she felt in danger of floating up in the air. As from a distance she heard “You saved her. No other healer could have done that.”

“I am not sure I did. We will know when she wakes. If she wakes. I’m not sure she will be the same person. It was so hard to hold on to her,” explained Maiho.

“You need to rest,” said Laivo. “I’ve sent everyone home. I told them it was because of the emergency. Urgent cases only.”

Two guards slid a stretcher underneath Raeha. Maiho wondered where they had come from. They had not been there before. They seemed to be afraid of something. They lifted Raeha off the altar. Laivo lent in close and whispered “Not a word.”

“No one would believe us anyway,” said one of the guards with a nervous glance at Maiho.

“Take her to the third consulting room,” instructed Laivo.

Maiho knew there was something else she had to do. She glanced around the room and saw more guards and two more stretchers.

“Bring me Maksim.”

“You don’t have to. He’s stable. Besides he’s a criminal.”

“I owe him. He waited so patiently while I healed Raeha,” explained Maiho.

Laivo looked at her as if Maiho had lost her mind. She gestured at the guards and Maksim was set down on the altar. Maksim was awake and stared with terrified fascination at Maiho. She healed both Maksim and Nolwark. Nolwark had been unconscious; it was as Maiho had feared. She had hit Nolwark a little too hard. After the healing the two enforcers were taken to a guarded room.

“Who organised the guards?” asked Maiho.

“Bardre, before she fell asleep again. That woman only seems to wake up to eat and crap,” replied Laivo.

“How on earth did she summon them at this time of the cycle? Or are they {i}on duty{/i} patrollers?” asked Maiho.

“She called up Azure Section using the buddy network citing an emergency. Apparently Bardre has prepared and planned for this kind of internal conflict as she called it.”

“I doubt she planned for a grief stricken Singer bent on revenge with a fully charged needle flinger.”

Maiho sat down heavily, her back towards the altar. There was more to do. What was next? Nargre! Of course.

“Laivo, any word from Nargre?” asked Maiho.

“You were right about Huglek. He went straight to Huifa’s. Somehow he got inside, but Nargre hasn’t been able to follow, she’s locked out.”


Maiho extended her senses until she found the message crystal that she had given Nargre. Unfortunately the crystal was inside someone’s waist pouch so Maiho couldn’t see anything. She could barely sense whoever was carrying the message which meant that Nargre probably still had it. She could however sense Huglek a short distance away from Nargre. She tried to get Nargre's attention by forcing the message crystal to flash, vibrate and squeal; to no avail.

Maiho slid her awareness in the other direction until she found Boeko, Grivia and Ras. The three shard hunters were circling a magma snake that had gotten too curious. Maiho still had enough of a connection to the day nest’s airlock to control it from a distance.

The hunters slipped through a tangle of crystalline day trees, iridescent in the harsh sunlight. As they neared the outer doors Maiho opened them a crack, enough for the hunters to slide underneath. Maiho snapped the door closed before the magma snake could follow. She opened the inner door a crack and the hunters slid into the day nest proper. Thanks to the fact that hot air rises only a little of the hellishly hot outside air made it into the day nest proper.

Maiho couldn’t believe she was doing this. For 10 hundred-days she had hid existence of the three hunters from the village and now she was throwing that secrecy away. But she felt she had no choice, if Huglek killed Huifa then there would be war between the senior families and Huglek. She would be pulled in as she could notabandon Huglek after her scheme had landed him in this mess. There was a good chance her parents and friends would be dragged into it as well. It was a nightmare. If she still believed in Naedri she would pray that Huifa had somehow escaped, but a sick feeling in the pit of her stomach told her that she was probably already dead.

She directed the hunters towards Nargre’s location. She impressed Huglek’s psychic scent on the hunters, instructing them to track but not attack.

She was forced back into awareness of her body by Laivo's impassioned kisses. “I’ll take care of you,” she was saying. They were lying on a mat that had not been there when she had last paid attention to her surroundings. Somehow she had managed to remove both their beech-clouts, and was exploring Maiho's inner thigh.

“This may not be the best time,” complained Maiho, who was worried about the confrontation between Huglek and Huifa and its aftermath. She couldn’t help remembering her youthful experimentation with Laivo and Wendam before Kernan had arrived on the scene. A shiver ran though her body as she thought about some of the things the three of them had done. Her skin didn’t seem numb at all now, especially where Laivo was touching her. She remembered a time when Laivo was leaning over her just like this. Kissing her as she moved her fingers inside Maiho. She had thrust in time with the smacking sound of Wendam penetrating Laivo from behind. How Maiho wished Wendam was here now. She wrapped her legs around Laivo just as she had in the half memory, half day dream.

“You can’t go outside like this.  Your whole body is glowing, your eyes are as bright as glow stones and your hair is waving about like it has a mind of its own,” moaned Laivo in between kisses.

Maiho squealed and rocked her hip with frustration. She wished that Laivo would stop teasing her outer lips and just stick her fingers in. She gritted her teeth and tried to remember what she needed to do. “I need three message crystals.”

“Oh fuck you and your endless schemes. Let me do this for you,” panted Laivo.

“This can’t wait. The messages I mean.”

“Are you really going to do this?” asked Laivo with a mixture of anger, frustration and lust.

“I have to,” Maiho groaned.

“Fine.” Laivo reached behind her and produced three crystals. “How did I know you were going to do this?”

Maiho took the crystals and recorded the same message on each one. “One each to Thiona, Belshat and Foenad,” she said as she passed them back to Laivo. She reached for her waist pouch.

“Keep your money.” Laivo rose to her feet and stormed off. 

Maiho watched her go sadly. She couldn’t open her mouth without offending Laivo lately. She lay back down on the mat and tried to let go of her own frustration and reestablish communication with her hunters.

The corridors were mostly empty with only a few people out. Maiho saw shock and fear on the faces of passersby. Every one scrambled out of the way of the hunters, as they were rare in blue territories. When the hunters arrived at Huifa’s there was a modest crowd. Without the message crystal she had given Nargre she might have missed her as her lack of colour made her almost invisible to the hunters’ senses.

The crowd moved back. She heard mutters about hunters and strangely, about guardian spirits.

She vibrated Boeko’s crystals to produce an audible sound. “Nargre. It’s Maiho,” 

“Where are you? I can’t see you,” replied Nargre, looking relieved. She had picked up several guards from somewhere, but most of the crowd seemed to be civilians.

“I am using the hunters to speak to you. I am still at the clinic.”

“That’s impossible.”

“It’s something I learnt to do at Lost Souls. Greens do it all the time.”

Nargre looked skeptical. “We can’t get into Huifa’s chambers,” she complained in frustration. “Is there anything you can do?”

“Not from here.” If Maiho had been physically present she could have picked the lock, using resonance to figure out the pass-song or she could have over-powered the lock to give it a new pass-song. If she had ever unlocked the door herself she could have used the pre-existing link to open the door even from this distance, but Huifa had never invited her to her home. There were other ways to get though a locked door though. “Can you put that message crystal I gave you, close to your ear?”

“I think it’s broken. It keeps making strange noises and flashing lights.”

“Just put it to your ear,” she said trying to suppress her frustration. She spoke again when Nargre had done so, using the message crystal instead of Boeko so that only Nargre could hear. “See the short haired girl with the scar on her arm and shoulder? She is one of Huifa’s bodyguards. She will know the pass-song for the entrance.”

Nargre gestured to two guards. After a brief conversation they headed out, circling around behind the bodyguard. 

Maiho’s concentration was broken when someone pulled her knees up and licked her folds. Glancing down she saw Laivo’s head buried between her legs. She knew that she should tell Laivo to stop, but instead she grabbed Laivo’s hair pulling and pushing Laivo’s face against her groin. Pulling her legs up, she rested her heels on Laivo’s shoulder blades. She shuddered as Laivo nipped and teased her inner lips. Maiho moaned. She couldn’t do this, she had to deal with Nargre, Huglek and Huifa. She tapped back into the hunters.

The guards had captured the bodyguard. Maiho was having difficulty following the conversation with the distraction Laivo was providing. She did catch the part of the conversation where the bodyguard divulged the pass-song. From the bits and pieces she heard she gathered there was no way the bodyguard was going to enter Huifa’s residence while Huglek was in there and she probably figured that it was better off being the guard’s problem than her own. Another part of the conversation Maiho heard was when she said Huifa didn’t pay her enough to get herself killed. The hunters’ presence didn’t hurt as she was terrified of them.

Maiho managed to stutter out something to Nargre about her plans. From the look she gave Boeko, Maiho was sure she had figured out that something was going on. Thankfully the pass-song was short, but she almost went out of key when Laivo inserted a finger at just the wrong time. 

As the door slid shut behind Boeko she let go of the hunter and wailed; giving into the exquisite sensations sucking on her clit and curled her fingers putting pressure on her front wall. Panting she thrust her hips. “More, please, more.” she cried tightening her pelvic floor muscles. Encouraged, Laivo inserted a second finger and sucked and licked her clit more vigorously. She arched her back, trembled and held her breath as something built inside her. As her orgasm crested and released she let go of the crystal energy with a crackle and wave after wave washed through her body. She felt it flow into Laivo. “Are you okay?” she gasped.

“That was wonderful,” said Laivo as crawled up her body, kissing her. She held Maiho tightly, rolling them over in a tangle of limbs. Maiho’s skin itched. She still had a lot of vitality even after giving Laivo half of it. She must have been holding a great deal more vitality than she had ever held before.

“Thank you. Sorry for being difficult,” apologized Maiho.

“That’s okay. You wouldn’t be you if you weren’t working on some idea, scheme or plot,” said Laivo with a kiss.

Maiho realized that this was the first time she had made love to Laivo without Wendam being involved and the first time since she had gotten involved with Kernan five hundred days ago. “I missed this,” she confessed.

“Why did you leave us?”

“I didn’t want to get in between you and Wendam,” Maiho explained.

“Silly. That could never happen.”

“I am going to go into a trance. Don’t worry okay?”

“More plots,” Laivo sighed.


Maiho sent Boeko through the short entrance hall into an open area, a foyer. There were three bodies lying in the room. Thankfully none of them were Huifa. Huglek was sitting on a couch staring at a door marked with scars from needle fire.

“Hi Huglek.”

“Maiho. So the guardian spirits are yours. I thought they might be. They turned up at about the same time you came back from Lost Souls. Are the red and green ones outside?” Huglek asked in a dead voice. His anger had left him and he radiated a morose, broken hearted despair.

Belatedly Maiho put what he was saying together with the conversations she had overheard outside. She had thought she had successfully hidden the hunters from the village, but obviously they had been seen. She had heard about the guardian spirits that were supposed to watch over the guard but dismissed the stories as superstition. She had never realized that people were talking about her hunters.

“Yes. Did Huifa escape through that door?”

“She has to eat sometime.” A spark of anger and hatred briefly reanimated Huglek’s features.

“If you can’t override a lock, how did you get in?”

“Followed someone in.”

“Those are going to be a problem.” Maiho gestured with Boeko’s limbs to indicate the bodies. She could feel someone sucking on her nipples, it was distracting.

“They attacked me.”

“You invaded their home.”

“They killed Raeha,” growled Huglek.

“Did they? I doubt they had anything to do with it.”

“They were protecting Huifa and she definitely had something to do with it,” he argued, heat returning to his features.

“You should leave Huifa to the magistrate.”

“She won’t be punished. The families will see to that.”

“I will make sure that she is punished. They won’t want to face both of us. I will be able to broker a compromise,” she argued. Laivo pulling her arse cheeks apart and spreading her outer lips was not doing a lot for her concentration.

“Which means she will only be half punished. I will take care of it myself.”

“If you kill her the senior families won’t stand for it. People will pick sides and a lot of innocent people could die.”

“I don’t care. For the first time in my life I was happy. She made me happy. She was - “ Huglek broke down sobbing. Maiho re-arranged Laivo’s hands to less inflammatory positions. She found she wasn’t in the mood.

Maiho waited until Huglek composed himself. “Raeha is alive. She is breathing at least,” she told him.  She had been dreading this. The last thing she wanted was to give him false hope, but he deserved to know.

“No. I felt the spirit leave her body. I knew she was gone before I laid her on the altar, but I hoped against hope that you would tell me that I was wrong.”

“I restarted her heart. I can’t guarantee she will recover, but she {b}is{/b} alive. We will know more when she wakes.”

For the first time hope bloomed in his heart. “You are telling me the truth? Of course you are. From all accounts you haven’t changed much from that earnest girl I taught singing,” Huglek said.

“You should go to her. I’ll station this hunter here. I will make sure that Huifa stays here until things are resolved.”

“Where are you? There is no need to hide. I am not going to shoot you.”

“I am still in the clinic. I am using the hunter to talk to you,” she spoke though Boeko.

“More forbidden knowledge.”

“I wouldn’t call it forbidden.”

“If it was discovered which green had taught you, they would be punished. The Hunts Masters are very jealous of their secrets,” he said as he raised himself from the couch. “I don’t need to warn you that things will become unpleasant if you have deceived me?”

“No need at all.”

Maiho warned Nargre that Huglek was coming out and explained the situation. She then let go of thehunters and found herself back in Laivo’s arms.Laivo arms.
