Chapter 6 : Conversing{b}Location{/b} Public Baths, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Predawn 1330 hours (1 {sup}1{/sup}/{small}2{/small}  hours before dawn) {br}Maiho closed her eyes and let the cool water wash away the heat of the night. She let the current swirling in the pool carry away the dust of the trail and the stickiness from the Mana fall.She was dimly aware of Feibu and her husband Rigsos entering the public baths and slipping into a pool on the other end of the room. A hundred-day ago she had to concentrate to get a vague sense of the location of her friends. Now the information intruded on her mind, if those she sensed had any talent or colour. She wondered what Rigsos thought about Sebram. She cracked open her eyes and turned her head. They seemed happy enough. Feibu seemed to have completely separated her life on patrol and her life in the nest. What was even more amazing was that she was able to flout the unwritten rules to be with Sebram. Maiho knew Feibu had been summoned to the council chambers three times and each time had completely failed to change her behaviour. She guessed the main reason Feibu had been able to thumb her nose at the council, by fooling around with a non-singer caste man, was that she was so far from direct succession to the priesthood. Also she really was as unmanageable as a razor claw. Maiho could not help but admire her.Maiho sensed Wendam and Kernan coming towards the baths. Kernan came into the baths, stopping at the alcoves where people stowed their clothes, then entering the pool at arm’s length from her.After a long pause Maiho asked, “Are you going to talk?”After another long pause Maiho asked, “Why are you way over there, Kernan?”“It creeps me out when you do that,” complained Kernan.“It’s a standard Diviner trick and you should be used to it by now.”“You are not a Diviner and I don’t think I will ever get used to it.”“Why did you come, if you are just going to sulk?” she asked. “Wendam said we should talk.”“And this your idea of talking?”“Why have you put your sword on the floor next to the pool?” he asked.“It is useless carrying around a sword if I am just going to leave it out of reach when I bathe.”“It’s useless with your eyes closed anyway.”“I will only be able to detect a Reborn with my other senses anyway,” she stated.“The Reborn are dead.”“Their soul crystals have not been found, and until they are, the Reborn will always return. I am tired of having the same argument over and over again.” Maiho opened her eyes and looked directly at him. “Cann’t you just trust me, when I tell you the Reborn are something to be concerned about?” she asked. After another awkward pause Maiho asked. “Did you really come here to start an argument about the Reborn?”“How is Bardre?”“She is doing well. She is weak, but she will recover. She is sleeping in one of the healing clinic’s consulting rooms. Nargre and Jetrel are with her. Considering how she treats them, they are surprisingly solicitous of her. Is Bardre actually what’s on your mind?”“You’re angry with me, aren’t you?” asked Kernan.“Now, why would I be angry with you?” It was clear to Maiho that she was not the only one frustrated and angry.“Don’t be snarky. I know you were hoping to use me drain yourself of crystal energy. I am tired of you using me that way.”“Are you tired of all the extra health, vitality and energy it gives you?” Maiho asked.“It used to be once a sleep cycle, now it is often twice. You’re getting worse. The curse is getting worse. What are you doing that is causing this?”“It is not a curse. It’s a consequence of my being a strong singer. The only thing that would reduce the effects is if I sang less.”“That is not what you said before,” rejoined Kernan.“I know more now.” Maiho was regretting confiding some of her fears to Kernan. “Neither Logwan, Josham nor your mother have this problem.”“They are not as powerful as I am, and the side effects I experience while singing are not exactly a problem. The benefits actually outweigh the inconvenience most of the time,” she explained. The benefits are definitely going to start getting more important as we both get older, or rather fail to get older. Maiho noticed Kernan did not mention the fifth of the village’s Singers, Song Master Huglek. Everyone tended to forget about the Song Master. She considered Huglek. In retrospect, perhaps she should have talked to him about her energy retention issues. Surely the person in charge of teaching all the singer caste children how to sing, would know something about the potential side effects of singing. However Maiho had been just as glad to escape Huglek’s class as he had been a dour unpleasant man, and after being taught by Illia, Urthrem and Tavia, what he had been teaching seemed so basic. Maybe that had influenced her decision not to go to him. Maiho had run into Huglek in the corridors three or four hundred-days ago and had been struck by how he was younger than she remembered. At the time she had told herself that everyone looked old to children and it was not Huglek who had changed but herself. Now she was thinking, what if he {i}was{/i} actually younger.“Are you listening to me?” asked Kernan.“Sorry, just thinking.” Maiho reached out and gave Feibu a mental nudge. Feibu looked over and scowled. Maiho asked for a favour using hand talk. Feibu signed that she was with her husband. Maiho signed ‘Please!’ Feibu replied with an obscene gesture.Maiho scanned the room trying to think of an alternative, the chamber contained twelve pools of various sizes. The people she knew from the guard were coming in, in dribs and drabs. They were mostly from the Mana collection party. They were avoiding the pool that Maiho and Kernan were in. Word had probably gotten around that they were having difficulties. She spied two bathroom attendants. <Perfect!> she thought. “You haven’t heard a word that I have said, have you,” he was saying.“I need to visit the facilities,” lied Maiho. She hauled herself out of the pool and retrieved her sword. She paid an attendant a chip, from a hidden pocket in her sword belt, to act as a messenger, then paid a visit to the restroom. After the cool water the air was warm. She wished that she was down in the cooler secret levels. She marvelled  that something that everyone knew about, could be hidden in plain sight. They were a part of a thousand stories. The cool paradise that the people of the Shambles said they had been exiled from. The isolated territories that the tyrannical level lords had used to imprison and control the first villagers. The lost Gardens of Plenty, though Maiho had never found anything edible in what she assumed had once been the gardens. Everyone thought these places were either a myth or in a faraway village, but all the time those sad abandoned areas were there under their feet.As she slipped back into the pool she noted that Kernan was looking annoyed. She, on the other hand was in a much better mood. The chilly water felt wonderful. At long last, she would be sharing those secrets with her friends, but not Kernan. Was she being fair to Kernan? Should she take Kernan with her as well? But Kernan would always do the right thing. He would obey the rules and not ask himself whether they made sense. Maiho had stopped obeying the rules long ago when she was abandoned to the non-existent mercies of monsters and told the rules said she couldn’t defend herself. No, Kernan would be left behind.Kernan moved away from her.“Are my eyes glowing again?” she asked.“Your eyes glow?” Kernan looked even more alarmed.“Sometimes. If that’s not why you’re spooked, then what is bothering you?”“It is just that you were looking rather fierce,” explained Kernan.“I am not angry with you. Well actually I am, but that’s not why I was looking - I was thinking about how the Village Councils have had 500 hundred-days to destroy the Reborn and they have failed over and over again.” Kernan leaned further away from her. “I think I see it now. They’re glowing.”Maiho looked her reflection in the polished crystal sides of the pool. “They’re not. I was only joking. Why do you believe everything people tell you?”She looked at Kernan. He looked good, startled, bewildered, but good. His long dark blue hair, fell in waves around his shoulders. He was lean and heavily muscled. She had been using him, he wasn’t wrong about that, but if he needed her, wouldn’t she do everything she could to help him? She was probably being unfair, she needed to stop thinking about it. She knew that she was incapable of thinking rationally about the matter, especially when she was feeling so frustrated.She closed her eyes and took deep breath. She coaxed her facial muscles into something vaguely reminiscent of a smile and waded toward Kernan.“Let’s stop arguing and just hold each other for a while.” she suggested. Keeping her eyes closed she found him with her fingers and traced a winding path across his hard chest, tickling him with vitality. She captured his arm and placed it on her cheek. She moved closer kissing him on the cheek. She pressed her body against his, enjoying the closeness, then opened her eyes and looked into his. “Are my eyes glowing?” she asked.“No.”“Do you see anything that scares you?“No,” he replied.“Then kiss me.” She was sizzling with vitality from the altar of healing and she let it flow into him. She felt him respond. She wanted him and she didn’t care who was watching.He bent forward and brushed his lips against hers. She leaned forward in response, returning his kiss with a passion that roared in her ears. The water seemed much warmer now. She was kissing his neck when he lifted her up, his hands cupping her ass. She wrapped her legs around his back and rubbed her groin against his hardening cock.He positioned his cock against her entrance. She pushed against him, desperate to force it in, thrusting her hips, rocking backwards and forwards.With a tilt of her hips his cock slipped further inside her. She moaned and pressed down, tightening her muscles around him.  She lifted herself up then tried to slam herself down on him. It was hard to get the right leverage. She devoured his lips and face. Then his supporting hands pulled apart her lips and his cock penetrated that final half inch and her clit was finally getting some stimulation. She went crazy thrusting her hips with wild abandon. She tensed up, trembling as she approached the point of release, then all the built up frustration and energy was pouring out of her in waves. She held on tight as she shuddered out her orgasm.Kernan slipped down in the water dazed. Maiho just held onto him enjoying the closeness. The attendant she had given her message to was standing next to the pool. He offered her a message crystal. She activated it and read the coloured flashes“It seems we are going for lunch,” commented Maiho.++++++{b}Location{/b} Jengon’s Eatery, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Predawn 1430 hours ({sup}1{/sup}/{small}2{/small} an hour before dawn) {br}Huglek and his wife were already seated, when Maiho and Kernan arrived at the Eatery which was half full with about 20 customers. The seats and tables were made of woven Fan Tree branches and lacquered Net Tree planks. The cushions were made from expensive but well-worn Lure Spike cloth. She almost didn’t recognize Huglek. He looked at least 10 hundred-days younger than he did when she had last seen him and he was smiling. She couldn’t remember him ever looking happy. He looked 40-odd, with a square broad face and strong chin which was softened by his long hair. He was stocky and slightly shorter than average. His patterns and hair were bright blue, showing a lot of talent. His wife, Raeha looked 20-odd and was thin with a narrow face and long flowing hair. A strange spiral stone necklace nestled between her small breasts. She was taller than him but had less colour.Raeha looked at Maiho with some skepticism, glancing at her husband. They both rose and she clasped Maiho’s forearm in greeting as Huglek did the same with Kernan. Maiho willed vitality into her arm and was rewarded with a startled look.“She is the real thing!” Raeha exclaimed.“It doesn’t surprise me,” commented Huglek. He reached out and took her hand and they tested each other’s strength. She managed to push vitality into him. She was stronger, but not by much.“But she is so young, and her colour isn’t even close to that of a singer’s,” said Raeha.“You should have seen her when she was first returned to us from the Village of Lost Souls. It was clear that she had sung a lot of foreign crystal. Fortunately either Logwan didn’t understand what he was seeing or he did not want to make an issue of it. I made some sort of idiotic explanation about the stresses of foreign lands which he seemed to accept. I told him Maiho needed to recover from her ordeal, and kept her as far from him as possible afterwards.” “I remember you telling me and Mother that I should sing as much blue crystal as possible in order restore my colour,” remarked Maiho.“Which probably contributed to your current condition,” said Huglek. “I’m sorry I couldn’t help you more when you were younger. I was afraid that some of the things you could do, would get back to the other parents, and cause problems for you. You learned so many things at Lost Souls, things that I am sure kept you alive, but could only be dangerous if talked about in Waterless Shore, so I encouraged your mother to keep you away from class.”Raeha broke the awkward silence by suggesting that they order food. She waved over a servitor.Raeha ordered roast red-feathered flyer with red fruit sauce. Huglek ordered Frilled Fungus Steak on sweet grass. Maeho ordered night-hare pie with web tree shoots and Kernan ordered blindfish with sour fruit sauce. “How can we be of help to you my dear?” asked Huglek once the servitor left to take their orders to the kitchen.“By giving us a little information our situation. For instance, how many Singers eventually become sources?” asked Maiho.“Sources, that is an interesting term. I have also heard people like us called the sealed. Our enemies call us cursed, but I prefer to be called blessed,” said Huglek. “More than half the senior Healers, a third of the Song Masters and one or two senior priests are blessed, usually the academics and scholars. But the blessed live a long time, and many generations of Singers can be trapped in Junior positions, growing old and dying without getting the opportunity to acquire our blessing.”“So it is not uncommon. Do you know what causes it?”“It seems to be related to how talented you are and how much crystal you have sung,” replied Huglek. “but I think you already guessed that.”“Why do our enemies call it a curse?”“They say the Gods are punishing us for some crime. What crimes they never say directly, just giving knowing glances and leaving the listener to invent suitable crimes themselves. They never explain why the Gods would give eternal youth and great power to those they despise, they just mutter about dark and mysterious prices.”“So you don’t regard it as a hardship then?” asked Maiho.“Without this blessing I would not have Raeha. I would either be very old or very dead. Crystal responds to me in way that it never used to. Often I don’t have to finish the activation song. Sometimes I only have to think it. So no, it’s not a hardship to me,” replied Huglek.“Your sword!” exclaimed Kernan.“What about my sword?” asked Maiho.“I could never work out how you activated your sword so quickly. You draw it and it seems to spring to life the moment it leaves the sheath. Sometimes I see or hear you sing or hum under your breath, but sometimes you don’t even seem to do that,” said Kernan.“Do you wear that sword everywhere?” asked Huglek.“Yes. Sometimes I wear two,” replied Maiho“I think that is very good idea,” said Huglek. “One of the most common ways we die is through assassination, as Singing prevents the usual causes of death such as disease and aging.”“I don’t see you, wearing a sword.” said Kernan.Huglek removed a crystal from his pouch.“That’s a needle flinger,” said Maiho. “Not many people would recognize it, however I am not surprised that you do.” said Huglek.“That is almost consumed. Would you like a new one?” she asked.“That is unbelievably generous.” he exclaimed. “Unless?” Huglek’s eyes flickered towards Kernan. “We will talk later,” he said.“Why would anyone try to kill me, aside from the Reborn, of course?” she asked.“That is an interesting question. It all goes back to when the day nests were each ruled by five level lords,” started Huglek. Raeha thumped him on the shoulder. “She doesn’t need a history lesson just answer the question.”“But you can’t understand todays' factions without understanding their historical origins.”“If I didn’t stop you, you would be lecturing us for hours about the level lords, then you would start on about your favourite theory about how the Famine Herald ‘leveled’ the level lords and transformed our society.”“I would have kept it brief, dear,” complained Huglek.“Were you going to mention the Famine Herald?”“Maybe.”“Then my argument stands proven.”“But the plague bearer’s efforts too bring equality to the day nest is the root cause behind many of the faction’s hatred for each other.”“Oh for Naedri’s sake! Maiho, the day nest’s bodies of influence and government are infested with little cabals of grubby little men who think about nothing but how to obtain wealth, power and influence for their faction and how to destroy the other factions,” stated Raeha.“That is a gross simplification,” objected Huglek, “and they are not all men.”“Is it a gross simplification? You give them far too much credit. They are vicious and pointless,” said Raeha turning towards Maiho, “and you want to do your best to avoid them.”“My wife is right about one thing, you want to avoid them. Much of what they do is counterproductive. These days I stay as far from the whole mess as possible,” said Huglek.“The operative words being ’these days’. Much of his life he was one of those little grubby counterproductive plotters.”“With age comes wisdom. Eventually I stopped being an idiot.”“You didn’t wise up. They kicked you out,” argued Raeha.“They didn’t kick me out.”“If it makes you happy to think that, continue to do so,” retorted Raeha. “You should talk, you were hip deep in those plots yourself.”“I had nothing to do with my uncle’s little games.” A servitor placed a plate of roast flyer and some eating utensils in front of Raeha.“If it makes you happy to think that, continue to do so,” retorted Huglek. Raeha rolled her eyes. “Most of these self-important cliques are named after men dead who lived so long ago that people have forgotten what they were originally famous for. As one of the sealed ones, the factions will believe that you are aligned with the Seekers also known as the Gedrikites. This is a self-fulfilling prophecy as whatever your initial inclination is you will end up being pushed into the arms of the Seekers by the hostility and suspicion of the other factions. I have seen it happen over and over again. Look at Huglek. He was originally a Cantumite, one of those who call themselves the Faithful. The leader of the Seekers in the southwest corner of the Blue Territory is my Uncle Finrel, the Senior Healer of Indigo Shadow. He is as bad as all the others but at least he probably won’t try to kill you. He will most likely try to recruit you. My advice would be to be polite, but to avoid entangling yourself with him for as long as possible. My uncle took over the leadership of the Seekers from your Aunt Viune, so everyone will probably assume you’re a Seeker even before they find out you are sealed.”“Just because I no longer support the Faithful doesn’t mean I support your uncle.” Another servitor placed a plate of fungus steak and some utensils in front of Huglek.“If you needed help who would you go to? Uncle Finrel or your old Cantumite buddies?” asked Raeha.“I would rather not go to either of them for help, since such help usually comes with a price.”“If everyone believes you are a Seeker your most likely threat will be from the Cantumites. Logwan is a Cantumite but he is not very active.”“I am pretty sure he poisoned Song Master Theunis in order to get his position as Senior Priest,” commented Huglek.A servitor placed a pie dish and utensils in front of Maiho.“You’re still angry about that aren’t you?”“At the time I did not appreciate being forced to retire from the Senior Priest position, but eventually I came to realize that he did me a favor.”“You are definitely still angry with him. Still, his actions were for personal gain, he didn’t act to further the Faithful cause. From what I have seen so far all his plots are like that, strictly for his own benefit. He probably won’t act against Maiho unless he feels threatened,” reasoned Raeha.A servitor placed his blindfish and utensils in front of Kernan. Huglek intoned a short blessing in the name of Naedri and they all began to eat.“Logwan is a complete Sickle-Toed Gormer. If he messes with you, tell me. He can’t do anything to me without ending up Song Master. I’ll sort him out,” grumbled Huglek.“Huglek dear, we have already moved on from Logwan,” said Raeha with some exasperation. “The most active Cantumite, the one who has a habit of ordering the assassination of vulnerable sealed ones, is also my dear husband’s replacement as leader of the so called Faithful,” said Raeha turning to Kernan. “So it would be a good idea if no one told him exactly how powerful Maiho is.” “It would be a bad idea if anyone brought Maiho to his attention at all,” said Huglek.“Why are you both looking at me?” asked Kernan. “Because the man who is the current leader of the Cantumites,” said Raeha.“The man who would be most interested in having Maiho killed if he became aware of her,” continued Huglek.“Is Kenthan of Joyful Tears,” completed Raeha.“I won’t sit here while my father is being insulted,” objected Kernan.“Oh, sit down son. Your fish is getting cold and it is very expensive,” advised Huglek.“Actually I think they were insulting you, not your father,” said Maiho.“Maiho, this is no time for your warped sense of humor,” cried Kernan.“We came for information. We shouldn’t run off just because they tell us something we don’t want to hear,” said Maiho.“They are just trying to break us apart. Don’t you think it is a huge coincidence that the man they name is my father?”“I think it would be more surprising if they named someone who wasn’t related to one or the other of us. Is there a Singer within two or three nights journey that is not related to us? In fact aren’t you my 4th cousin?”“Third cousin, once removed. That is not the point. How can you believe this crap?” asked Kernan“So does that make Kenthan my third cousin, twice removed?”“Just your third cousin. Are you making fun of me?”“It is not surprising your father is hostile to sources, or sealed ones or blessed ones. You must have gotten your attitude from somewhere. Why does everyone have a different name for us?” mused Maiho.“I can think for myself.”“Are you sure?” Kernan went red at Maiho’s question and his patterns took on a distinct purplish cast. Maiho thought he was going to burst a blood vessel. He opened his mouth, but nothing came out. Seeing that he was at a loss for words, Maiho turned to the couple opposite them. “I think you enjoyed that little dramatic announcement way too much.” said Maiho giving Raeha and Huglek each a measured look in turn. “Why would Kenthan send assassins all the way over to Waterless Shore?”“Maybe we were overstating the case a little. Your youth could lead him to underestimate you. This could be good or bad. He could decide you are unimportant and ignore you. On the other hand he could decide that now would be the perfect time to remove you from the board, before you become dangerous. You would be in the most danger when you are at gatherings and festivals, but assassins have been sent to home villages before. It is not common, but it has been done and rumor has it that Kenthan has done so before. Perhaps the rumor is false and in any case I truly do not know what Kenthan will do. However, that does not affect the validity of our advice,” explained Huglek. “Young Kernan, be careful about what you tell your father about your girlfriend in your correspondence, lest you either end up short a girlfriend or short a father. Personally I would put my money on Maiho in any confrontation between them,” explained Huglek.“Thank you, teacher,” Maiho said.“You were the scariest 11 hundred-day old that I had ever met. I doubt you are any less dangerous now.”“You say the nicest things.”Kernan sulked through the rest of the meal and picked at his fish. They talked about the other factions such as the senior families and the Crafter’s faction and even about the Shamblers. There was also a relatively new group led by a healer called Moene that styled themselves the Balancers. Raeha and Huglek argued about whether they are actually a faction, without coming to a conclusion.At the end of the meal Raeha and Huglek suggested having lunch again sometime and they parted company on a high note, except for Kernan who was still sulking.++++++{b}Location{/b} Corridor, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Morning 1600 hours (49 hours before dusk) {br}As they walked back to the healing clinic, Kernan was silent. He was hunched over, a picture of depression.“Kernan, I need you to stop reporting to Logwan and your father about what I am doing,” she asked.“Are you accusing me of being some kind of spy?”“No, a spy would have pretended to agree with me and support me, in order to gain my trust. They wouldn’t have left me alone with Bardre, and they wouldn’t have made it clear that they were getting money sent to them by their father by buying an expensive dish at an eatery.”“I am not getting money from my father,” said Kernan.“The guards don’t pay you enough for you to afford fish.”“I have a little money left over from what my mother gave me when I started my slow tour.”“That was four hundred-days ago.” objected Maiho. “Fine. Let’s ignore that. Do you think the Village councils are doing a good job?”“What do you mean?”“For instance, do you think the Shamblers should still be punished for something that happened 800 hundred-days ago, something that wasn’t even their ancestors’ fault?”“Why are you saying they are being punished?” he asked.“The Shambles is overcrowded. Most of it is raw tunnels carved out of bare rock. It lacks light and a lot of facilities that we in our Eldarholme warrens take for granted. Many of them lack easy access to clean water and food is short.” She could end the Shamblers exile and let them back into the Gardens, except the plants that the Garden once held are gone. They would have water, facilities and no overcrowding but food would still be a problem.“They can forage at night like everyone else, or they can get jobs.”“It’s not so easy to get from the Shambles to the outside and no one wants to give them a job,” she said.“They are surviving, so there must be a way.”“They are surviving only with great difficulty, and some of them don’t survive. What about the empty Villages?”“What about them?” he asked.“The bandits use them for bases to attack caravans.”“The bandits use the caves not the empty Villages.”“That is what everyone says, but it’s not true. They only use the caves if they can’t get to a Village in time. Have you tried waiting out the daylight in a cave? It is worse than living in the Shambles. We could cut down the number of bandits dramatically if we filled those Villages with people and set up patrols,” she said.“It would violate the inter-colour treaty.”“That treaty is 500 hundred-days old, perhaps it’s time to make a new treaty.”“We don’t have enough people to fill those empty Villages anyway,” he said.“We do, if we give those villages to the Shamblers.”“Why are telling me this?”“To make it clear that you need to make a choice,” said Maiho. “Priests are generally conservative. The Faithful are supposedly even more conservative. They like things the way they are. Would you say your father is any different?” she asked.“{b}I{/b} like things the way they are.”“Well you are not going to get that option. How do you think your father is going to react when I put this plan into action. When things aren’t  the same as they as they use to be? When there are no longer any empty Villages and no longer any Shamblers?”“I don’t think you can do it, and why would he care?” he asked.“Each new village will get a vote in the council of councils. It will throw the balance of power in the CoC completely out of kilter and it is going happen. Once I put things in motion, it would be hard to stop.”“Why are you telling me this.”“Because you need to make up your mind. Whose side are you on? If you tell your father my plans he is bound to try to have me killed. So what is it going to be?” she asked.“My father wouldn’t do that.”“This isn’t about what your father would do. It’s about what you will do,” she stated. “Get back to me when you have made up your mind.” Maiho strode down the corridor leaving a bewildered Kernan in her wake.