Chapter 12 : Contention

++++++
{b}Location{/b} Southern Healing Clinic, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Dawn Sleep 2330 hours (41 {sup}1{/sup}/{small}2{/small} hours before dusk) {br}

“That was awful,” complained Laivo. 

“At least you now know why my mother avoids this kind thing like the plague,” said Maiho.

“This is the last time I let you rope me into one of your crazy schemes. I was in such a good mood until I met those ugh, people.”

“I’m sorry, I thought it was important that you know what was agreed to.”

“That little snake, trying to suck up to you, after taking snipe shots at everybody all though the meeting. She is up to something. You know she can’t be trusted.”

“They are all up to something and none of them can be trusted.”

“Hang on, What do you mean it was important that you know what was agreed to? Why would I need to know that?”

“Because I am going to Blue Moon gather and I need someone to watch them while I’m gone.”

“You’re leaving me behind?”

“I thought we agreed they can’t be trusted. Who else can I rely on?”

“Your mother. Its her job. She is the one that is suppose to be doing all this running the Village stuff.”

“My mother is only interested in the clinic. The rest of the Village can burn in daylight for all she cares.”

“Shouldn’t you follow her example. Why do you have to save that rat Huifa?”

“Because the families need to stop acting as if they are above the law. And the Singers acting as if they are above the law isn’t an improvement.”

“You’re one to talk warrior ‘I killed seven enforcers before breakfast’”

“I know. I should have confronted Belshat straight away, instead of assuming that he would get the message that I wasn’t to be messed with.”

“The body count would have been much higher if you had done that.”

“Perhaps,” Maiho sighed.

“You can’t fix everybody else’s problems,” lectured Laivo. “And you need rest. Come home with me and Wendam and I will take care of you.”

“About that.”

“Don’t tell me that you are going back to Kernan.”

“Today was the most vitality that I have ever held,” said Maiho. “And I gave you the most vitality that I have ever given anyone.”

“Don’t change the subject.”

“Just listen,” Maiho sighed. “You have hardly lost any crystal energy. Kernan would have lost much of the vitality by now.”

“What has that got to do with anything?”

“You were close before, but what we did has accelerated the process. You’re becoming a source.”

“No, no! That’s impossible. If it was so easy to become a source everyone would be one,” exclaimed Laivo.

“You were born with a ton of colour that you inherited from your mother and grand mother and so on. Your ancestors were Healers and when they weren’t they received a constant flow of crystal energy from those that were. You have a good ear and fabulous control plus you have been singing to your books since you were knee high despite having been repeated warned about it.”

“I’ll stop. I’ll never sing again.”

“Too late. The damage has been done.”

“I should know better by now. The less sense something you say has, the more chance you actually mean it. I thought you only messing with those family bosses when you said that I was close to being a source,” said Laivo.

“The best way to mess with peoples heads is to tell the truth.”

“You’re telling me that all that I have ever dream of since I read the first of my family’s diary is gone.”

“This will be even better. You will see.”

“What sitting at home doing all the stuff that you don’t want to do? Thiona was right. I will be Maiho two. You always do this, you take charge and try to run other peoples’ lives for them. Well I don’t want that. I can run my own life thank you.”

“You wanted us to go on adventures. Dance the night away at glittering parties, have powerful people bow and tremble before us. You can have it all, just like in the diaries.”

“But we can’t be together like I wanted.”

“Yes we can. Its just that now is a very important time for you. Before you become a source it is easy to learn something new but hard to improve pass a certain point. After you become a source it is hard to learn new skills but easy to improve old skills. You just need to be patient.”

“Don’t you think I have been patient enough. I have waited years for you. Now you are going back to Kernan I know it. You, me and Wendam is just something unimportant we did when we were kids,” said Laivo bitterly.

“Its only temporary.”

“So you *are* going back to Kernan?”

Maiho blushed and turned away.

“I thought so.” Laivo spun around and marched off.

“Laivo?” Maiho called after her. “I didn’t get to ask her if she wanted a child,” she sighed.



+++++++++

As Maiho approached her quarters she sensed Kernan.  Her heart rate sped up as walked the final distance. She paused at the door way resting her head against the door, taking a deep breath she exhaled then reached out with her mind to the door mechanism. The door slid open and she leaned forward peeking around the corner. Kernan was sprawled naked on the sleeping platform, drool leaking from his open mouth. Tip toeing into the room she removed her breech-clout and sat on the platform.

Placing her hand on his back she said, “Hey!”

She waited a while then shook him. “Hey!!”

She caressed his back tracing his spine. He jerked as she reached in between his legs. He rolled over and wiped the drool from his face. “Maiho?”

“Hi,” she replied.

“Are we still fighting?”

“Do you want too?”

“No. Definitely not,” he hurriedly answered.

“Then we aren’t.”

“I don’t understand why you had to attack me.”

“So you *do* want to keep on fighting,” responded Maiho.

“No. Definitely not,” he hastily repeated.

“Good,” she said leaning in to kiss him.

She sighed. He really didn’t understand why she was angry. She thought up and dismissed a dozen ways of explaining it. No matter how she approached it he would never understand. He would do anything to gain his father’s approval and he didn’t see how keeping him informed about things that were common knowledge around the village could do any harm. And it was even less likely that he would understand the other things that were annoying her.

She had first been attracted to him because he was straightforward and uncomplicated without a scheming or underhanded bone in his body. Even now he was basically a spectacular failure at attempting anything sneaky. She that it was unfair that she blamed him for being oblivious to politics, the bigger picture or any conception of a future difference from the present. She had known what he was like when she chose him. However she couldn’t help being annoyed. She had grown, but he hadn’t. 

Besides the real problem was sex, and his reluctance to engage in it. Much would be forgiven if he was less of a pain about it.

“You look dreadful,” said Kernan with concern.

“Why, thank you! You look very dashing yourself,” returned Maiho, wiping the drool off his chin.

Kernan reddened, becoming flustered. “No, I mean you’re exhausted,” he explained. “You look like you’re ready to collapse.” 

“I wish I could collapse. I would give anything to fall asleep, but my nerves are jingling and jangling.”

“I think I could help with that.”

“You’re volunteering?” asked Maiho bitterly. “That’s a first.”

“Don’t be nasty. I am not that bad,” seeing Maiho’s skeptical look, Kernan repeated, “Well I’m not. You’re just demanding.”

“I don’t have a lot of choice,” she muttered. There were other ways getting rid of extra vitality, but they just took to long.

“A normal shift at the clinic usually doesn’t leave you so bad. Was there an accident?” 

“You didn’t hear? Belshat and Huifa tried to kill Huglek, but got Raeha instead,”

“Naedri’s mercy. Is she alright?”

“No. It is doubtful she will be alright ever again.” Guilt threaten to overwhelm her. It was all her fault. If she had carefully though out and planned her little council takeover, instead of just doing it the tock she thought of it, maybe things would have turned out better.”

“Poor Huglek.”











