Chapter 4 : Confrontation

{b}Location{/b} Training Camp, near Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory {br} 
{b}Time{/b} Predawn 600 hours (9 hours before dawn) {br}

After warm up exercises and stretches, Jetrel lead the class in basic forms practicing thrusting, cutting and parrying for a third of an hour. Jetrel then handed the class over to Maiho. 

“The chances are reasonable that you will never have to face a singer in battle, however if you are so unlucky as to do so you will probably die, unless you listen me right now.”

“Can anyone tell me, what are the weapons you are most likely to face in the hands of an enemy singer?”

Sebram called out “War Artificia.”

“Shard hunters”, called out a trainee called Kuiquo.

“Shard mounts and shard crabs are also far more dangerous when controlled by the voice instead of by flute. There are also another weapons such as those that shoot fire and others that shoot cutting crystals. Thankfully those types of weapons are rare.”

“Can anyone tell me what to do when attacked by a hunter or other Artificia.”

“Use your shard mount against it?” suggested Hadrel

“War Artificia are too strong for a shard mount to fight effectively and shard hunters are too fast. This is definitely a delaying tactic of last resort. Most people, even those who know better will attack the Artificia, which is worse than useless. There is a better strategy. Wendam, what is rule Number Two for fighting against a hostile force supported by singers?”

“Kill the enemy singers first, kill them as quickly as possible.”

“Thank you Wendam. You eliminate the threat of the Artificia when you remove the hostile singer controlling it. Another way of dealing with a threatening Artificia is too have a friendly singer wrest control of the Artificia away from the hostile singer. Which brings me to rule number one. Kernan, what is rule Number One for fighting against a hostile force supported by singers?”

Kernan gave her disgusted look.

“Come on, I know you know it.”

“Protect your own singers at all costs,” said Kernan with grimace.

“Friendly singers are you and your friend’s best defense against hostile singers. Expect the enemy to target your singers. The enemy will often refrain from sending their Artificia into the conflict until the opposing singers have been eliminated for fear that they would lose their Artificia to your singers.”

“If you cannot kill the enemy singers quickly or use your own singers to oppose them, then your only remaining options are fleeing or surrender.”

“I will now give a short demonstration of offensive singing. Of all the weapons available to me as a singer these are one of the least powerful. However my use of these weapons is covered by tradition and common usage, so the village council is not going arrest me for doing this. Bandits or reborn are not going have this limitation though,” said Maiho as she moved to a circle of wooden and steel figures that Sebram and Feibu had helped her set up beforehand. She hummed and felt an immediate response from the longer sword. She had used it for years so this was unsurprising. The shorter heaver sword was more sluggish in its response as she had only just started using it. She paused within the circle of statues and carvings. Some of the figures had been welded together out of scrap metal using her light spear, the others she had carved out of wood using her sword. 

She unsheathed her swords in a blur, as they were already bonded to her they started vibrating with the first note of the activation song. She slashed, cut and spun her swords barely hesitating as they sliced through wood and metal. She spun to a stop among the scattered fragments of wood and steel, and sheathed her weapons.

“This concludes our demonstration. Any questions?” Maiho asked.

“Couldn’t I just run you down with my shard mount?”

“Hadrel, you really like your shard mount, don’t you. No, I would take control of your mount and kill you with it.”

“How about an arrow?” asked Feibu.

“A far better solution. You might want to make sure the arrow head is metal and not crystal. Some singers can sense crystal.”

“I like to thank Maiho, for her presentation and demonstration. Maiho was a lost child and witnessed many conflicts involving singers. Group A is to form up near the practice dummies where Sebram assist you with blunted swords. Group B is to form up in the central area where Feibu will take you through basic forms. Group C is to form up in the left area where Maiho and Wendam will supervise sparring.

There was an odd number of people sparring so Maiho didn’t need to spar herself. She was increasing reluctant to spar with other students. Her wooden sword always seemed to automatically find the gaps in her opponents padding, so much so that half the students dropped their sweaty uncomfortable padding when they found out that they were fighting her. Worse her mind was flooded with ways to kill or disable her opponent, not with the sword she would have in a real combat, but with her wooden sword. It was as if her mind refused all pretense and it was getting worse. The time was approaching that the reborn would return. It wasn’t only the historic pattern of incidents every 10 hundred days. She felt it in her bones. She watched the happy laughing students and wanted to scream at them that they needed to be serious, that what they were learning could mean the difference between life and death. However half the students thought she was queer or crazy, she didn’t want the other half thinking it too. Instead she went up and down the line pointing out mistakes, correcting the sparring students, demonstrating stokes, blocks and parries. 

Mundas managed to hurt his sparring partner Tarmar. After checking Tarmar over and determining that he had nothing worse than some nasty bruises, she sent him to the side to recover and took Tarmars place as Mundas’s sparring partner. Mundas’s skin between his patterns went white when he realized this. She hadn’t worn padding for years, so she looked calm and collected while Mundas looked like a drowned scrat, overheated and swimming in his own sweat. She didn’t feel too bad when her control slipped and she delivered a couple of bruising strikes on his unprotected back. She scared herself and Mundas when she came within a fingers width of crushing his throat. 

Jetrel seemed to concentrate on giving individual attention to members of Group B as Feibu led them though forms. A student named Gedrot tripped over another student and Maiho had to heal a gash on above his eye. Maiho sent Mundas over to spar with Gedrot’s partner Queobo to the relief of both of them. 

Maiho went back to monitoring and correcting the students. She had them change partners and was about to have them change again when Bardre stormed into the sword drill area training area with her spear twirling. Bardre marched up to Jetrel and started shouting. It seemed to be about her demonstration and whether healers could be warriors. Maiho stopped listening to the words and concentrated on the movements and body language. Bardre’s actions with her spear weren’t a nervous habit, Maiho decided. She was using her spear to deliberately bully and intimidate other people, in a way that Maiho found deeply offensive. Maiho knew Illia would never behave like this. Maiho always thought of Jetrel as kind, quiet and almost timid, but this was not the man she was seeing now. Jetrel was standing with his feet shoulder width apart, leaning forward with his weight on his toes. His practice sword was in his off hand and his right hand was resting on the hilt. Jetrel did not seem to really believe that Bardre would attack him, it was more like he was pushing back against Bardre’s aggression.

Maiho found her feet taking her towards the conflict. She felt an icy calmness that she had not felt in a while. 

“Your usual tricks are not going to work, in this case, Bardre,” warned Jetrel.

“Baa, that pretty face has turned your brains to mush,” stated Bardre.

The spear tip weaved back and forward in a pattern. Jetrel and Bardre continued talking, and continued their dance. The spear dipped and shot forward. Despite the fact that Maiho knew that Bardre only wanted to scare her and was not going to hurt her, she was overwhelmed by a cold fury. 

She step forward deflecting the spear with her wooden practice sword. “Not!” She drew her shorter sword with her off hand and sliding forward again cut the head off the spear. “Acceptable!” Another shuffle forward and another length of wood fell on the floor. She managed to stop her sword a few finger widths from Bardre’s neck. “If you wave that thing in my face one more time I will shove it so far up your arse that you will be spitting wood chips for a week.”

Bardre grew pale between her markings. Bardre’s eyes looked down. Maiho looked down too. Maiho’s longer sword had cut deep into Bardre’s side just below a V shaped scar. Maiho could not even remember dropping her wooden practice sword and drawing her other crystal sword. “Naedri’s Tits,” Bardre swore. 

“Wendam, get me my bag. Jetrel steady her.” Maiho withdrew the sword, caste off the blood with a practiced flick, then sheathed both swords. “Ease her down.” Miaho knelt down next to Bardre. She grabbed her bag, removed healer’s balm and a healing crystal. She tossed the balm to Jetrel. “Jetrel, give her that balm, Sebram and Wendam hold her down.”

Maiho had drained one healing crystal and had almost drained a second when there was a commotion.

“Jetrel, arrest that girl.”

“Nargre, I would appreciate you not interfering with my healer, while she is trying to save my life,” Bardre groaned.

“But she tried to kill you.”

“So did you. Did anyone try to arrest you?”

“That was different.” complained Nargre.
 
“You shot me point blank.”

Maiho could not help glancing at the scar on Bardre’s stomach. “We are going to need to get her to a healing altar as quick as possible. I have her stabilized but her injures are too serious for me to heal them with only healing crystals.”

“I will organize a litter to carry her to one of the shard crabs,” said Jetrel. “We strike camp as quickly as possible.” Jetrel looked at Nargre and Nargre nodded her assent.

An hour later she was sitting next to Bardre on the trailer of a shard crab as they headed back to the day nest. 

“I asked Jetrel to get this for me.” Bardre held out a necklace with one white crystal. Maiho heart leapt. “Give it to Leonam and tell him that he is now Assistant Spear Drill Instructor and will be in charge of my classes while I am recuperating.” Maiho face fell.

“What did you think I would let you anywhere near sword trainees after this? You are a killer. I saw it in your eyes. Your first, second, third and four thought was to kill me. I am lucky that your fifth thought was to spare my life.” 

Maiho lowered her eyes, she knew that Bardre was right.  “No, this one is for you.” Bardre held out a necklace with two white crystals. “Congratulations, you are now the Mounted Maneuvers Drill Instructor.”

“You can’t.”

“You don’t think we need a Mounted Maneuvers Drill Instructor?” asked Bardre.

“But I am only 21 hundred days old.” 

“You have more battle experience than most of the guard. Or are you going to try and sell me that tall tale about mysterious adults rescuing you and the other Lost Children from the Village of Lost Souls. Remember I have faced you. I know you have killed enough times that it doesn’t matter to you anymore. The way you ride a mount like you were born on one and your grasp of tactics – Well let’s just say I found your analysis of the battle of Dust Falls very enlightening.”

“You heard that?” asked Maiho.

“You’re not the only one with big ears, Missy.”
 
“But I tried to kill you.” 

“How do you think Jetrel and Nargre got the job?”

“I refuse to believe that Jetrel would hurt anyone,” stated Maiho.

“You would be surprised, under that pretty face, there’s a steel core.”

“Are you seriously trying to tell me that you are not really an arsehole, that it was all some kind of test?”

“Of course I’m an arsehole, I kill people for money,” said Bardre. “And as for a test, it’s only the test I give everyone. Perhaps I pushed more with you, because I didn’t want to believe what Jetrel was telling me. It’s hard to believe that you’re Telvra’s daughter. Viune’s niece, yes I can see that, but Telvra’s daughter, no, you do not have much in common with your mother.”

“Are you saying that you go around to the most dangerous people you know, and try to get them to kill you?” said Maiho.

“Do know how hard it is to get people to kill? You train them until they can act without thinking and it still takes their best friend about to be skewered by a bandit before they are willing to push the spear in. The village is too civilized these days.”

“You are a stupid, stupid woman and I don’t know why you are still alive.”

Bardre started to laugh before stopping because of her wound. The most infuriating thing about Bardre, Maiho decided, was how pleased she was when Maiho insulted her.  “I am alive because I am the toughest bitch in the guard.”

“Well it stops here. You are to on your best behavior from now on,” insisted Maiho.

“Says who.”

“Says your healer. Next time you can heal yourself.”

“You may be right. This time was a bit too close for comfort. If it makes you happy we can argue about this later. Right now, I need to shut my eyes,” said Bardre.

She felt stretched thin herself. She lay down beside Bardre. Bedding was very soft but with the amount of vitality within her, buzzing and jangling her nerves. 

Kernan seemed to have disappeared just when she needed him the most. She was sure he had done it deliberately. He had to know how badly she needed to discharge vitality after a major healing, like the one she had performed on Bardre. She wondered how long she could take the constant drama with Kernan. The trouble was she was not ready to give him up yet, and even if she were, there were not very many good alternatives. She was related to most of the singer caste in Waterless Shore, and singer caste from other villages who are on the slow tour like Kernan were snapped up quickly. If she started up a relationship with someone who was not singer caste, then everyone who thought they had a say in her life from her mother to the village council, would come down on her. 

She touched Bardre and tried to will some of the vitality into her, but it didn’t seem to want to go. She closed her eyes for a little bit.

++++++

{b}Location{/b} Vision {br}
{b}Time{/b} Predawn 700 hours (8 hours before dawn) {br}

There was color and noise. Maiho rose above the clamor. To the north she could see a red shield, to the east she could see a white sword. She moved toward the white sword.

There was a white queen seated on throne. She was naked except for the sword strapped to her thigh and the crown on her head. She had no mouth.  The throne was white and made from a twisted man, his hair formed her golden crown and his mouth opened in a silent scream. Surrounding her and guarding her were 8 green night wolves. Behind her and to her left stood a giant battle game piece, the corresponding place to her right was empty of its customary red figure. 

“Where is Jep?” she asked.

The queen looked sad and made a motion with her hands.

“No.” she cried and fled.

++++++

{b}Location{/b} Lost Souls Day Nest {br}
{b}Time{/b} 11 Hundred Days Previous {br}


Jep, Pas and Kin helped Maiho with the injured. They manage to scrounge cloth and water from somewhere, probably from the dead reborn. Pas even found some fire fruit brandy. Thankfully none of the children had been hit with needles, however many had scratches and bruises from pieces of rock and crystal that had been knocked out the walls by the needles. She might have to keep an eye on one girl who’d been struck on the head by a largish sized rock from the ceiling, but other that all the injuries were minor. They had been very lucky. 

Maiho walked over to where Rath and Illia were talking to two of the new children. Illia was holding a black stick and they were all looking at a drawing on the floor. It looked like a map.

The black spire boy gestured at the map. “I don’t see how we have any other choice. You cannot feed us with that amount of food. You can’t feed yourselves.” 

“We can’t defeat four singers. We barely managed to kill one,” protested Rath.

“It was two singers. One controlling the Light spear and one controlling the four shard hunters,” said Jep.

“But it was pretty much an accident that we won,” objected Rath.

“Maiho out sung and outshot the light spear wielder,” insisted Jep.

“Illia overpowered the hunt master’s control of their Artificia while Kin kept control of ours,” argued Rath.

“So we are in agreement. We kicked arse,” said Jep.

“Still, four reborn singer’s sound too much for us,” said Illia. She gestured at each of them in turn. “Urthrem and Tavia this is Kin and Maiho, they are both singers, Maiho is also a healer. Pas and Jep are their shield bearers. Jep is the argumentative one. Urthrem and Tavia are also singers.”

“Greetings friends,” said Urthrem who it turned out was the black spire boy. “The singers are all Arkrum. Arkrum is bone lazy. One of them is sleeping, the others are sitting together in a corner near the sleeping one, probably playing bones if I know them. We can use the storm to kill them, then kill the non-singers with hunters.”

“How do you know all this and what is an Arkrum?” asked Pas.

“I know it because I have been trained as a Diviner,” answered Urthrem. “And Arkrum is a person, a singer who has been dead for 500 hundred-days. Our foes all share his soul. We are familiar with Arkrum as two of them were with the war party that escorted us to this place.”

“What’s this storm you are going to kill the singers with?” asked Maiho.

“You {b}are{/b} the storm, friend Maiho,” said Urthrem.

“Urthrem foretold that you would come. He said that a blue storm, a white sword and a red shield were going to help us,” added Tavia the green spore girl.

“Illia’s a white wand not a white sword,” said Pas.

“Oh, I assure you, that friend Illia is quite sharp and pointy,” replied Urthrem.

“Perhaps someone else should handle the flinger this time,” said Rath. 

Illia kicked his leg and shook her head. “Nonsense, Maiho is the best with the flinger.”

“I don’t know. Perhaps Rath is right. After what happened - “, started Maiho.

“Was anyone seriously hurt?” asked Illia.

“No.”

“If anyone else had been controlling the flinger people {b}would{/b} have been hurt,” insisted Illia. “It wasn’t your fault.”

“If not mine, then whose?”

“Are you alright? Can you shake this off?” asked Roth.

“Just let me kill some reborn bastards, that always makes me feel better. It will wash the taste of my stupidly out of my mouth,” said Maiho with a sad smile.

“The storm will wash away our enemies,” said Urthrem.

“Naedri save us! Do you always talk like that?” asked Maiho.

“It is considered traditional,” stated Urthrem.

“If you could make an effort to talk like a normal person, I would be very grateful,” said Maiho.

“I will try, oh unstoppable one,” said Urthrem with a cheeky smile. Maiho rolled her eyes.

“How many reborn warriors are there?” asked Jep.

“The seeing crystal is not very good at showing untalented ones,” said Urthrem. “However it does not matter, if the storm sweeps away the masters of crystal, the huntress will devour the helpless ones.”


“He is talking about me,” said Tavia, “My father has taught me the songs and the ways of the Huntsmasters. I can see though the hunters’ eyes and control them at a distance.”

“Tell me that you’re not thinking of going through with this crazy plan.” said Rath.

“It is the only way to get the food we need to feed all of us,” said Illia. “I want a demonstration of your ability, Tavia. Would an old fashion sing off suit you?”

“For control of the shard hunters?” asked Tavia. When Illia nodded, Tavia continued “Absolutely, just from your colour alone I can tell you are a strong singer. However that won’t help you against my training.”

Tavia had strong colour of her own, with hair and marking both a brilliant green.

“You know that if you do this there could be consequences if we get home?” asked Illia.

“I have been ignoring the rules controlling singing all my life. Do you think I learnt all I needed to know from the Song Master. Most of the training I received was from my parents. I think it’s the same in most Huntsmaster’s families,” said Tavia. 

“It’s the same with Diviners. I was trained from an early age by my uncle. By the time I eventually went to the Song Master, he had very little he could teach me,” said Urthrem.

“The Archivists also do this. My parents taught me the craft very early,” admitted Illia.

“This is depressing. My mother taught me absolutely nothing. If there was any secret Healer knowledge it probably died with my great aunt,” said Maiho. And of course Kin was self-taught, she thought.

“Still, that was in the privacy of your family’s apartment. What you’re going to do now is more exposed,” warned Illia.

“Ever since I met Urthrem, he has been risking his life singing and humming to that damned seeing crystal of his and from listening to the rumors our old reborn guard told us about you, you haven’t been discreet yourself. I am not going to sit on my hands while you all take the risks on our behalf,” said Tavia.

“Just as long as you have thought about it,” said Illia

“If there are ‘untalented’ patrols that you can’t see, Urthrem, they will spread the alarm and instead of surprising those singers I will end up with a face full of light beams, needles or maybe a shard hunter making all ugly at me,” said Maiho.

“I can tell you they have three hunters and some kind of weapon crystal. No-one is currently touching the weapon though and none of the hunters are active,” said Urthrem. 

“We have an answer for the patrols too. We use the hunters to punch through the patrols. Any alarm will arrive at the same time you do, if not later,” said Tavia. She sang the hunt’s song and two hunters crouched down on next too Maiho. “Get on,” she commanded.

“I think Rath is right, you all are crazy,” said Maiho.

Maiho climbed onto the hunters and they took off with a lurch.

++++++

{b}Location{/b} Wilderness near Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Predawn 1000 hours (5 hours before dawn) {br}

The shard crab lurched and Maiho was thrown into Bardre. Bardre did not stir. Maiho checked her but she seemed as well as could be expected. 

The shard crab driver offered her some sandwiches as brunch and she ate as she watched the night life go past and thought about her dreams. They were getting more and more vivid. There was also one of those new dreams about a grown up Illia. She dimly remembered Illia telling her that Jep was dead. She hoped that it was a dream. She was afraid that singing so much foreign crystal had changed her. 

Tavia and Urthrem had taught her so much. The dreams were little like what she remembered from trying Urthrem’s seeing crystal all those years ago, except a lot more clearly. She couldn’t be having visions without a seeing crystal, she just couldn’t. Maiho wiped the tears from her eyes, and tried to tell herself, that Jep was still alive and that it was just a dream.



 







  
