Chapter 11 : Coercion

++++++
{b}Location{/b} Southern Healing Clinic, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Dawn Sleep 2300 hours (42 hours before dusk) {br}

“Those two are Cursed too. That’s why they want to help Huglek,” said Foenad, pointing at Laivo and Maiho.

“Nonsense! They are both too young. The Cursed have to have been senior singers for at least ten hundred-days. Though I must admit they {b}do{/b} look a {i}bit{/i} like villains in a play.” admitted Belshat.  He frowned. “How {b}is{/b} performing healing supposed to give you eyes and hair like that?” he asked.

“It was a rather intense healing session,” said Maiho. “It’s not every day I bring someone back from the dead.” She reflected that although Foenad was naive, and to put it kindly, ‘limited’ he was the only one to see the obvious. Belshat and Thiona even though they were supposed to be fairly smart could not see the truth right in front of them. Since she could not hide her and Laivo's condition, she had intended to make a virtue out of necessity and use the fact that they were both Sources or, in Laivo’s case, close to being a Source, to frighten the family heads into submission. However, to her disappointment Belshat and Thiona seemed to accept her ridiculous explanations without hesitation. It was probably all for the best. While revealing their level of power might solve a few short-term problems, having it known that she was a Source would probably cause too many problems later on down the track, especially with Yeona and Kelvin.
 
“You need to find another joke;, that one is getting tired out” said Belshat.
 
Maiho sighed why was it that of everything she said, it was the fact that she had restarted Raeha’s heart that he had trouble believing? It wasn’t the first time she had resuscitated someone, although admittedly it was the first time she had resuscitated someone that was so far gone.

Foenad played a phrase on his flute dimming the wall crystals. The room was plunged into darkness relieved only by the blue light emitted by Laivo’s and Maiho’s patterns, eyes and hair. A chair crashed to the floor. Maiho hummed under her breath and the wall crystals brightened again. Belshat had retreated to the other end of the room, pressing himself against the wall. 

“See! I told you, they are both minions of the Leveller,” shouted Foenad.

“Please! It’s just luminescent paint,” declared Thiona. “You see it all the time in plays.”

“That’s not paint. Are you actually looking at them?” asked Belshat hoarsely, not moving from his position at the wall. He was breathing heavily. His eyes fixated in a kind of horror at Laivo and Maiho. 

Laivo had her arms crossed. She looked very uncomfortable at the attention she was getting. She leaned over and whispered to Maiho “Do I have to be there?”

“Just listen and learn,” whispered back Maiho. “You are going to have to do this yourself soon.”

“What?!” squeaked Laivo, her eyes widening in alarm.

Maiho made a brief shushing gesture before returning her attention toward the senior family heads.  

“Are you Cursed, Maiho?” asked Belshat, his voice trembling slightly.

“Cursed is such stupid term,” stated Maiho. “What kind of curse gives people eternal youth and great power?”

“Their powers are given to them by the Leveler in order to overturn the natural order of things,” accused Foenad.

“The Leveler isn’t even a real god,” responded Maiho. “Not one of the five anyway.”

“The Leveler brought the great plague in order to sow chaos and end the benevolent rule of the Lords of the Levels,” Foenad announced. The words had a well-practiced feel as if he had heard them or said them many times. “She created the Singers to bring the five families down low.”

“Benevolent? You call the Level Lords’ rule benevolent? You must have attended different history classes from the ones that I did,” Maiho said. “Besides the first Singers came at least a hundred hundred-days after the plague.”

“Maiho, please,” pleaded Belshat. “Are you? Are you like Viune, like Huglek?”

Maiho eyes narrowed. “I prefer the term Blessed,” she said.

“Whatever you call it. Just -“ Belshat stumbled over his words. He trembled. He looked ready to collapse.
	
“There is no need to panic, Belshat. I am still the same girl you have always known,” said Maiho. “True, you have been involved in four attempted assaults, on me, my friends and my family in as many five-days so maybe a little alarm is called for.” A wicked smile escaped, touching her eyes.

Belshat shuddered. “You look so much like her.”

“Who?” asked Maiho.

“Viune.” replied Belshat.

“Keep it together, Belshat,” rebuked Thiona. “Weren’t you just telling me about the dignity of the family heads?”

“The gods will not allow the faithful to fall,” said Foenad, his words had an oft repeated almost ritualistic quality.

Maiho ignored Foenad, focusing instead on Belshat. “If you’re asking whether I will still look like this hundreds of hundred-days from now, the answer is yes. If you’re asking whether I can do things that most other Singers can’t do, the answer is yes,” she replied. “If you’re asking whether I can kill you anytime I want to, the answer is also yes.”

“But you’re still only the Junior Healer,” said Belshat. “How is this possible?”

“It is just a matter of talent and practice,” said Maiho. “Besides, am I really still only a Junior Healer? It seems as if I already have more responsibilities than a Junior Healer normally has.”

“And your friend?” asked Belshat.

“Laivo is close, but she is still least half a hundred day from becoming a true Blessed,” replied Maiho. Laivo started at that and opened her mouth to say something. Maiho shook her head, indicating that she should ask later.

Belshat covered his mouth with his hand. He closed his eyes. “Alright, we accept your demands,” he said at last.

“No. This is not right,” shouted Foenad.

“Belshat?” queried Thiona.

“Just go along. I will explain later,” Belshat urged.

“You think you are going to buy Huifa through some intermediary and let her live in luxury while still controlling the 4th family behind the scenes? Well that’s not going to happen.” stated Maiho. “And no, I am not reading your mind.” 

A startled Belshat opened his mouth but nothing came out. Thiona was tapping her fingers impatiently, while Foenad was vibrating with fury.

“As Naedri wills it! I have given my advice and you have ignored it,” said Thiona looking pointedly at Belshat. She crossed her arms, leaned back and turned her head away. She was ready to wash her hands of the entire distasteful affair.

“Can’t you see you are playing into the Leveler’s hands?” begged Foenad.

“What are your plans? Who are you going let buy her then?” croaked Belshat.

“The clinic will buy her to look after poor Raeha,” replied Maiho. “If Raeha recovers she will be set free. If Raeha dies she’ll go to the Shambles to serve The Gardener.” In Maiho’s judgment, Huifa would rather be left out in sunlight than live in the Shambles.

“The Gardener doesn’t exist,” protested Foenad.

Laivo groaned and put her head on the table. Maiho had to kick her to get her to sit up straight.

“It would be interesting to watch you trying to explain to Torlmri that she doesn’t exist.  She doesn’t like the other Families much, so your Aunt better make sure Raeha doesn’t die,” retorted Maiho. 

“We will die before we allow my Aunt to fall into the hands of you  Leveler loving monsters,” said Foenad in a strangled voice. 

“You’re welcome to,” replied Maiho. “I encourage it.”

Foenad sprang out of his chair clutching his belt knife. He looked pale and swayed slightly, fury fighting with fear.

“Sit down,” commanded Maiho. “Don’t make a fool of yourself.”

Foenad collapsed back into his chair. He sunk into himself as all pretense of defiance evaporated.

“Is it a good idea to make him head of the 4th family?” asked Maiho, appearing hesitant for the first time.

“So it starts,” said Thiona. “Is Foenad going to be the second sacrifice you ask for?”

“None of us want inter-village trade disrupted,” said Maiho. “I am asking for your advice.” She glanced at Belshat and Thiona. “Can he do the job?” she asked.

“It’s a little late to be worried about that,” scoffed Thiona. “As to his suitability; what do you think?”

“I think he is weak, mentally unstable, and as dense as Fort wood,” admitted Maiho.

Foenad straightened in his seat. “You - “ he protested.

“Pipe down before you make an even bigger fool of yourself,” ordered Maiho.

“You can’t - ” he started again before freezing as Maiho leaned forward. He turned toward Thiona, his eyes beseeching her for support. Thiona snorted and rolled her eyes.

“Belshat, you are looking untidy over there. Come sit down,” Maiho ordered.

“I would rather not,” replied Belshat swallowing.

“What are you afraid of?” asked Maiho. “Am I so terrifying?”

“Viune - “ he started. He closed his eyes and continued “She killed my cousin.”

“I am sorry about your cousin. I promise not to kill anyone today. Will you please sit down?”

“She touched him and his patterns moved,” muttered Belshat recalling the horror. “He collapsed. Just like that. Dead in an instant.”

“You know me. You know I don’t randomly attack people. Will you please sit down?”

“Except Bardre,” pointed out Belshat.

“Bardre is fine,” said Maiho though gritted teeth. “She will be back on her feet soon.” Couldn’t anything happen in this village without everybody knowing about it? “Will you please sit down?”

“You worthless tube parasite, stop being a total embarrassment to the senior families,” growled Thiona.

Belshat shuffled hesitantly back to his seat. 

“Right,” Maiho sighed. “I need you two to tell me, if Foenad can do the job and if not, who can.”

“If you are so worried about the caravans, you should keep Huifa on as head of the 4th Family,” sniped Thiona.

“That’s not possible,” Maiho said firmly.

Belshat swallowed then said nervously “Huifa’s been head of the 4th family for too long. All his cousins are the same. None of them are used to thinking for themselves. Huifa’s son moved to Hidden Springs. He had some ability.”

“Why are you telling her this?” asked Thiona angrily. “That’s family business.”

“You’re right,” replied Maiho. “I don’t need to worry about this. Thiona, you mentor him. Make sure he doesn’t do something stupid like piss off all the caravan owners and get Waterless Shore blacklisted.”

Thiona and Foenad both immediately protested.

“I don’t need a nursemaid,” complained Foenad.

“I am not your lackey,” protested Thiona.

“When he's not begging or whining, he's ranting about a cult that hasn't existed for 800 hundred days,” said Maiho. "Tell me I don't have cause to worry."

Belshat and Thiona looked a bit embarrassed. “What - ?” Maiho studied them for a moment. "Don't tell me that both of you also believe in this nonsense?” she asked.

"The Leveler is the source of all woe,” announced Foenad.

“What was it you said before? Scapegoat?” asked Thiona. “Sounds like the Leveler. She gets blamed for everything.”

"I have always thought of the Leveler as a metaphor for the desire of the less able to tear down their betters,” opined Belshat. He had already recovered some of his confidence after his fright.

“You think of yourselves as being better?” asked Maiho.

“The white fish always rises to the top of the stew,” agreed Thiona.

“Breeding counts. Do you think you would be where you are if you weren’t Viune’s niece?” asked Belshat.

As if facing death, hunger and maiming in Lost Soul had nothing to do with it. Not to mention the repairs to her hand and the constant singing to try and restore her colour. With an effort Maiho opened her fists and unclenched her teeth. “Right, look I can't get into this with you now,” said Maiho pinching the bridge of her nose. Not and get any rest this dawn sleep, anyway. “The important thing is that you -“ she bit down on the colourful description that she wanted to use. “That the senior families agree to stop attacking Singers or Singer caste members. Votes in the council are to be obtained with the usual bribery, political alliances and skullduggery. No more violence, threats or intimidation. I am fine with the families killing each other off, but when it comes to outsiders, you are to keep your claws well and truly sheathed, understood?” She speared each family head with her gaze.

Reluctantly they all nodded, even Foenad. Perhaps he had some sense of self-preservation after all. Although perhaps their agreement had more to do with the fact that while the senior families still had plenty of thugs with swords, spears and bows, most of the thugs who could be trusted to keep their mouths shut were dead or injured. 

“We will address any further problems with the 4th family if they arise and Thiona I am counting on you to make sure they don’t arise,” said Maiho. 

Thiona seemed to come to a decision. “Okay, maybe he does need some hand holding,” she conceded. “But I am not taking him potty.” She snorted at her own joke.

“You will all pay,” muttered Foenad panning the table before looking daggers at Thiona. 

‘Maybe I was wrong about him having a sense of self preservation,’ thought Maiho.

Thiona frowned. “After you have proven yourself, you can give me attitude, until then keep a civil tongue,” she warned.

Belshat chortled. 

Thiona snapped at Belshat, “You can keep your opinions to yourself.”

“Did I say anything?” asked Belshat.

“What you didn’t say was left unsaid in a very loud manner,” accused Thiona.

“Moving on,” said Maiho. “I will bring Huifa in before Dusk Sleep. She can stew a little bit longer.” She sighed. “Next cycle is going to be very busy for me, however I am the only one who can bring her in without bloodshed.” With her shard hunters and her lock picking skills it should be easy.

“We asked, but you never told us whether Huglek has agreed to give up his vendetta against Huifa if we do this,” Belshat pointed out.

“He agreed in principle,” said Maiho.

“You mean he thought we would never agree, so he would never have to keep his promise,” said Belshat. “Now that we {b}have{/b} agreed he may change his mind.”

“Then you won’t have Huifa’s betrayal on your conscience. Your hands will be clean,” said Maiho. “Huglek will take care of Huifa and that will be that.”

Belshat frowned. “There is no need to be like that,” he said. “We did what you wanted and now you’re dissing us for it.”

“Apologies,” said Maiho. 

Maiho cleared her throat “Next item,” her expression became serious. “I want you out of the village on the next available caravan, Belshat.”

“Fuck you!!” Belshat yelled slamming his fists on the table he rose half out of his seat. “I did everything you wanted. You can’t do this to me.”

Thiona laughed. “I told you. I warned you, but you didn’t listen. First Huifa, then Foenad, now you!” She stopped laughing and gave Maiho an accessing glance. “So, when is it going to be my turn?”

“As long as you don’t mess with me or mine, I won’t mess with you,” said Maiho.

“But you did mess with me,” said Thiona. “You messed with my livelihood.”

“You have been taking advantage of the farmers and craftsmen for a long time and made a lot of money from it,” said Maiho. “Surely you didn’t think that would last forever.”

“I only took -“ started Thiona.

“You threaten to turn my life upside down then ignore me,” accused Belshat too impatient to hold back. Thiona glared at him, unhappy about being interrupted.

Maiho stood up. “I don’t make threats,” she warned. Belshat sat back down cringing away from her. “Four attacks in as many weeks and you were involved with all of them. I would be a fool to let you stay.”

“I wasn’t involved with that second attack on you. It was all Laurvit’s fault. They went against my orders,” Belshat protested. “And the attack against Huglek, Huifa wouldn’t listen to reason, she said that he had betrayed her. It was like it was personal for her. She seemed more upset about him becoming younger and remarrying than about the vote. It wasn’t my fault.”

“But in the end, you helped her. As for the second attack on me, they were your men, so it was your fault. I notice that you didn’t deny the first attack on me, or more importantly the attack on my parents.” As Maiho leaned forward, Belshat shank back into his chair.

“Natlard and Winfur only wanted to talk to your parents. There was no need to cripple them.”

“Your two lackeys threatened my parents, trying to intimidate them,” growled Maiho. “Your thugs will recover. If I had been there, they probably wouldn’t.”

“My family, everything that is important to me, is here. Please don’t do this to me,” begged Belshat. “I’ll will do anything.”

“You’re a widower. You should go on the Grand Tour and find a wife. I am doing you a favour. You are safer out of the nest. What if Huglek found out you were the one who crippled his wife? Your life wouldn’t be worth wolf leavings.”

“You wouldn’t!”

“I wouldn’t have to,” said Maiho. “You know now impossible it is to keep a secret in this village.”

“I’ll keep out of his way. I’ll take my chances. I would rather die in the company of my loved ones, than wander alone as an exile.” 

“Truly you are a sad piece of shit,” commented Thiona.

“Fuck you, Thiona!” shouted Belshat. 

Thiona laughed. “Maiho, I’ll do anything. I’ll go get Desiad from Hidden Spring. You were worried about the 4th family under Foenad. Desiad is a competent boy. I will be able to talk him into coming back I know it.”

“Desiad killed his own brother and sister. The 4th family will never accept him back,” barked Foenad.

“That was never proven and there are plenty of 4th family members that would prefer Desiad to Foenad,” argued Belshat.

“Wolf shit,” said Foenad.

“Hidden Springs, umm,” muttered Maiho. She sat thoughtfully for a while. “Alright you can go, I want you to give messages to Moene of Hidden Springs, Finrel of Indigo Shadow and Loshven of Blue Moon. Moene and Finrel will probably both want to question you about the political situation in Waterless Shore and about me. You are to be truthful and honest.”

“You won’t regret this,” said Belshat not hiding the relief in his voice. “I have heard about Moene and Finrel, but I have never heard of Loshven.”

“Loshven is a friend. He is a fellow Lost Child and is currently Junior Priest at Blue Moon.”

“What about Desiad?” Belshat looked smug as if he had gotten away with something. 

Foenad opened his mouth as if he wanted to say something. Maiho didn’t give him the chance. “Have him meet me at the Blue Moon gather, I will be there for the Council of Councils remember.”

“How could I forget?”

“I want to talk to him before I make a decision. Make sure you get to Blue Moon a few days before the gather. I want to give Loshven advance warning that I am coming.”

Foenad was ready to explode again. “If you do - “ he began.

“First lesson from your nursemaid,” Thiona interrupted. “Recognise when you have lost. Also, Maiho is giving you the chance to prove yourself. There is plenty of time before the Council of Councils for you to overcome the bad first impression that you have given her.” She turned to Maiho. “Right?”

Maiho raised her eyebrows in surprise. “Right.”

“You’re not going with Desiad?” asked Belshat in confusion.

“I haven’t decided yet.”

“So what am I supposed to tell Desiad?”

“I will send you a message before you leave Hidden Springs.”

“But, how?”

“I have my ways,” announced Maiho. “Let’s wrap this up. We will talk again at the council meeting before Dusk Sleep. Foenad you will exercise Huifa’s vote for the time being.”

“Who died and made you Level Lord?” asked Foenad.

“Raeha died, that’s who,” said Maiho. “It’s not wise to set fire to the net tree you’re sitting in.”

“What the fuck is that supposed to mean?”  asked Foenad.

“It means that when you are trapped in a small day nest for 50 hours a day and there is no place to run too, it’s unwise to start attacking your fellow trapees.”

“The potty mouth has a point,” said Thiona. “If the net tree is on fire, to use your analogy, shouldn’t the entire council have been at this meeting?”

“This is between the senior families and the Singers,” declared Maiho. The last thing Maiho needed was Yeoni, Kevlin or even Nargre seeing her threatening and bullying Belshat, Foenad and Thiona. Yeoni in particular would have freaked out when Foenad turned out the lights and Laivo and she started glowing.

“But you and your twin sister here are the only Singers in the village,” pointed out Thiona. 

“Who do you want? Huglek would kill the lot of you for what you did to his wife. My mother would ban lot of you from the clinic for life for similar reasons. I don’t think Logwan counts as a Singer at this point. My father is a teacher for God’s sake and he stood up to Belshat’s thugs. He takes care of children all day. But Logwan, who is supposed to control the war Artificia if we are attacked, he is bullied and manipulated through threats. How can we trust such a coward to protect us?” asked Maiho, her voice rising and her face flushed.

“I suppose he is the next person on your list,” commented Thiona sarcastically. “So, when are you going to get him.”

“I don’t need to do anything,” said Maiho. “He has failed in the only thing his masters need him for.”

“What is that?” Thiona asked.

“They needed his vote in the Council of Council, but of course, now he doesn’t have one.”

There was an uncomfortable silence in the room.

“It is getting late. I am sure all of us will appreciate getting some rest this Dawn Sleep. I will set off for Indigo Shadow within the five-day,” said Belshat.

“You will set off at dusk on the first available caravan,” ordered Maiho.

“But the Council of Council - “ started Belshat.

“I am sure that Desiad and everyone else will appreciate the advance notice,” said Maiho. “And I can’t guarantee your safety if you stay. Not if Huglek were to take an interest in you.”

“But, but - “ Belshat stuttered.

“Give it up, Belshat,” said Thiona. “You were doomed from the start.” She paused then continued, “Alright let’s, end it here. You all need your beauty sleep. Especially you Belshat. What? Did someone beat you with an ugly stick when you were a child?”

“Fuck you, Thiona.” growled Belshat.

Maiho stood up, yawning. “I have to agree. Not about the bit about the ugly stick. But the bit about getting out of here.”

Laivo sprang out of her chair and was half way to the door before forcing herself to wait for Maiho. 

Thiona cajoled Foenad and Belshat out of their seats and then out the door.

“Aren’t you coming with us?” Belshat asked Thiona as she pushed him out the door.

“I need to ask Maiho about something,” replied Thiona. 

“What are you up to?” asked Belshat.

“None of your fucking business,” yelled Thiona as she slammed the door in his face.

“Thiona, I’m not in the mood to deal with you at the moment,” pleaded Maiho. “Can we do this next cycle.”

“It won’t take long,” reassured Thiona. “It’s just that before Ugly Stick interrupted us, we were having a very important discussion about not messing with each other.”

“Is this the part where you threaten me? Because I most definitely am not in the mood for that.”

“Oh Gods no! I would rather use a razor claw as a nipple ring.”

Maiho winced. She could have done without that image. ‘Why couldn’t she just say yes or no?’ she thought.

“Get to the point you awful, awful woman,” growled Laivo.

“No need to get your breech-clout in a twist, Maiho Two.”

“The name is Laivo, you - “

Maiho grabbed Laivo by shoulder. “You’re not helping.” She turned to Thiona and barked “Get on with it.”

“You strike me as someone who likes things orderly. With two new family heads things are liable to get disrupted. You could use someone to smooth things over. Someone in your corner,” argued Thiona.

“That does sound like a threat.”

“No, no. Quite the opposite in fact. An opportunity, an overture of friendship. All I ask is that you don’t mess with me or mine. Especially not mess with my earnings. I will even give you my vote.”

“All I can promise you is to talk to you, before making any big decision that is specific to merchants.”

“Well that is a start I guess. We will talk more later,” said Thiona. “Do you want me to mentor Theoka as well as Foenad?”

“No. We are friends. We are both the same age and both in the Guard. I’ll take her under my wing.” While Theoka loved her father Belshat, what she did not love is how he hovered over her, and how he interfered with her life. By the time Belshat came back from the little errands which she was going to send him on, he would find it harder than he expected to regain control of the 1st family. After they met up in Blue Moon, maybe she would send him off to Foragers Sacrifice in Green territory with a message for her friend Tavia or maybe even further to Truthful Wind in Black territory to her friend Urthrem. In fact, why not both?

“I’ll leave you then,” said Thiona gracefully exiting the room.

“That was awful,” complained Laivo. 

“At least you now know why my mother avoids this kind thing like the plague,” said Maiho.



