
{b}Location{/b} Lost Souls Day Nest, The Battle Grounds {br}
{b}Time{/b} 11 Hundred-Days Previous {br} 


The two shard hunters disappeared down the side corridor up ahead. Maiho split her attention between the side branch and the turn further ahead. Her eyes flickering between them. She swapped the needle flinger to her left hand as her right was aching. The last thing she needed was for the needler to slip out of her partially crippled right hand at the wrong time. It had already happened once though thankfully not during battle.

Jep noticed the change and slipped behind her to stand on her new off hand side. Shifting the heavy shield to the other hand as he did so. He knew better than to stand in front of her when she was holding the needler.

She poked her head around the corner verifying that it was clear then sprinted to the other side of the intersection. Jep struggled to keep up, she didn't know how he managed to hold that shield for so long. 

Reaching the relative safety of the corner she glanced back to Loshven and Dret, she felt a sense of relief at only having to worry about being attacked from 2 directions instead of 3.

She sang a quick song to summon the shard hunters from the side corridor. She made it a sew steps further down the corridor before Jep tapped her on the shoulder. He pointed behind her with a flick of his chin.

With a sinking heart looked back to see Loshven gesturing like a manic toward the side corridor as if hadn't taken in his ill conceived intentions at a glance.

"No," she signed "Come this way."

She signed as he continued gesturing down the side corridor. 

"Come here now!" she signed with emphasis.

Loshven glared at her with irritation and gestured again. He seemed to have forgotten than she was in charge again. Tania had given him a talking the previous sleep cycle and put the fear of Orock into him. He had been obedient for a while, but it seemed to have worn off.

"Why," she asked herself, "was it that Illia, Tania and even jovial mild mannered Urthrem can make the juniors obey them, but when I try they looked at me as if I am some kind of cute harmless pet." The only senior who was worse at ordering about the lost children about was Kin and at a full hundred day younger she was, he was one of the youngest escapees trapped in this nest.

Despite the fact that Loshven had no real experience in fighting the Reborn, he couldn't seem to understand why he was regarded as a junior singer while Maiho was considered a senior.

He regarded himself as superior because he was priest caste and she was only healer caste, plus he was two hundred day older, and she was a girl.

"Wrong way," she signed. "This way." she pointed. Why did he have to start this now. This was one of the worst places to dawdle. She softly sang at the two green shard hunters sending one up ahead and one back down the side passage.

Loshven shook his head and repeated the same gestures.



"Naedri wept." she voicelessly muttered. Taking a deep breath she closed her eyes and schooled her features in her best imitation of an angry Tania. Opening them  she skewered Loshven with her best glare and signed vigorously "Me leader. Follow orders."

"I can't understand you," he said way to loudly. Maiho ground her teeth and checked each direction. Sound travelled far to easily in these corridors.

Of course he didn't understand Red Blade Hand Talk, she had only been teaching him hand talk for the last few weeks. She growled quietly in frustration. Half the problem seem to be that hand talk came from the Red Blade tribe and half that it was Maiho who was teaching him.

"Silence!" she signed. "Hand talk only." From the way he narrowed his eyes and pursed his lips seemed to understand that. Why, oh why didn't Illia let her take Lethia or even Veuto  instead of Loshven. However Kin needed Lethia on his team. She was protective of Kin and listened to him despite the age difference. There was no way Loshven would listen to Kin as he was 9, a Red Blade Tribesman and wasn't even Singer caste though the Red's and the Seniors kept that part secret, telling the juniors than Kin was Priest caste. And Veuto was too weak and too unskilled, so Maiho was stuck with Loshven. At least they were both Blue Wave Tribe.

Dret was just as nervous about standing in the middle of an intersection as Maiho was. He tried to 'encourage' Loshven to move to the partial cover of the corner, but Loshven shrugged Dret off. Looking at him he was still determined to go in the wrong direction.

"Talk under cover," she signed gesturing at the Dret and Loshven to come closer. Loshven opened his mouth to say something before Dret covered it with his free hand. Loshven shoved him roughly away. The tall thin blue raise his fists and threatened the shorter stockier red.

Maiho fished a red fruit out of her pouch and threw it at Loshven, hitting him on the cheek. Both of them gave Maiho dirty looks. Dret because the waste of food and Loshven at being hit.

"You!" protested Loshven.

Dret quickly retrieved the fruit. "Good some not hungry," he signed angrily. He wiped the red fruit with the flap of his pouch and took a bite out of the fruit.

"Silence. Here," signed Maiho, pointing at her feet.

Dret observing that Maiho's angry glare had switched from Loshven to himself, he reluctantly stowed the partially eaten fruit in his pouch. He reached out to grab Loshven's shoulder but froze mid gesture, his head turning back the way they had come. There was movement at an intersection further down the corridor.

Dret swung his shield around stepping in front of Loshven. Three arrows hit the shield, one shattering into to splinters. Loshven yelped as the splinters pierced his neck and shoulder.

Maiho and Jep switched places in well practiced movements. By the time the second volley arched towards them they were both under cover behind Jep's shield. Maiho cursed their luck the reborn had attacked from the one direction she had not posted a shard hunter. Called the two shard hunters back from the passageways that she had posted them in.

In the break between volleys she peeked around the shield to observe the enemy. Their were about four whites, a red and a green. The arrow were coming from the whites. They were the probably Odiks. Odiks were amazing archers, but they were poor at tactics, and were a little cowardly, especially if you shoot at their face. This explained why the arrows were coming in volleys instead of being staggered and why were focusing on one target at a time.

She needed to force the reborn back behind cover. If the reborn thought the children were suppressed behind the shields then the Reds would rush them. Once they came within sword or spear reach it would be all over.

Loshven cried out. He had been hit in the foot. Dret was trying to drag him to cover behind the corner made by the side passage, but they were both still in between her and the reborn. Activating the needler would be dangerous, but she couldn't wait. She launched  herself right trying to open up enough space between her,   Dret and Loshven to get a clear shot at the reborn. Two Reds were out of cover and charging down the main corridor, the one in the lead was carrying a sword so she was probably a Sa, the spearman following her was undoubtedly a Warx. She activated the needler with the final musical phrase but the stream of needles went wide. Dust and rock fragments were knocked from the corridor walls. The Reds dived to the floor and the Odiks retreated into the side passage as Maiho adjusted the stream of needles closer to the reborn. The first shard hunter rushed pass Dret just as Jep slammed into her. The second shard hunter galloped pass Jep as Maiho hit the ground.

Maiho blinked away the shock and pain of the fall to find Jep crouched over her and his placed sideway to cover most of their prone bodies. "You idiot," yelled Maiho. "If I hadn't shut off the needler in time, we would have been killed by the ricochets." She scrunched up making sure she was covered by the shield. 

"Idiot yourself," retorted Jep. "What were you thinking? You almost got skewered." He pointed to a crossbow quarrel thats head had punched half way through the shield.

"Orock's balls!" she swore. The green was obviously a Hekia. Hekias were Arbalists and were a lot braver than Odiks, and you needed to be brave to calmly take a shot while a stream of needles was heading your way. "Help me up will you."

A deafen series of squeals, screeches and clangs assaulted their ears. 

"What in name of Dis's hairy weapon is that?" asked Jep. 

"Someone is using either a message crystal or a book crystal to disrupt my control of the shard hunters," replied Maiho.

"You can do that!?" he exclaimed in disbelieve.

"Apparently," she sighed. As long as the singer who was controlling wasn't very good, that is. Maiho was sure that Tavia wouldn't even be slowed down by this trick. However Maiho wasn't a Green Spore HuntMistress, she was only a half trained Blue Wave Healer. Usually Maiho's colour was enough to make up for her lack of experience, that and Jep's protection. Sometimes she wondered what would happen if she ever ran into a reborn with more colour than she had, nothing good that's for sure. Urthrem would warn before that happened though, thank Naedri for Urthrem. She was sure the reborn did not have any Diviners otherwise they would have been captured long ago. "We have to get up. I have to regain control of the shard hunters before the Reds get to Dret and Loshven."

Jep hauled her up, tilting the shield upright as he did so. Another quarrel zipped past her head as her regain her position behind the shield. She took advantage of Hekia's reload period to sneak a peek around the left side of the shield. Here was only one green wasn't there? She had thought there was only one red but it had turned out that there were two. There was blood on the floor near the shard hunter. Had she gotten one with her needles? No, it had probably been the hunter. She caught glimpses of the Reds behind one of the hunters. Was that a piece of cloth? Was one of them bandaging the other? She couldn't tell. She yanked her head back in as a volley of arrow reached them. Some of them hitting the shield and some of them clattering against the floor behind them.

"The whites are getting brave again," she muttered. "I need to teach them some respect." She swapped the needler back to her right hand. 'Please don't drop it, Please don't drop it!' she prayed. Dodged to the right side of shield, releasing a spray of needles in the reborn's direction before ducking back behind the shield.    

She needed to discourage the Odiks and the Hekia from shooting at them, stop the Reds from charging while regaining control of the hunters. She knew her limit. There was no help for it. "Loshven, I need some help. You have to activate your light spear. Burn some reborn for me. You've practised it. I need you do to it now."

"I'm hurt. I need the healing crystal," Loshven yelled back. "Heal me now. Please hurry."

"I busy now. Shine a little light on those reborn and I will heal you up as good as new," she retorted.


"I'm bleeding everywhere. There is a huge iron bar poking all the way though my leg and it hurts like Orock's Judgement and Dret won't take it out. Here are all these bits of wood sticking out of my neck. They are going to kill me I know it." Loshven sounded panicked.

So it was Hekia who hit Loshven. She thought that missile sticking out of him looked small for an arrow. It was a good shot for a Hekia. Odiks were usually more accurate.

"Are you baby or a warrior? You said you wanted to fight, well this is fighting. You said you could do this better than I could. Prove it,"  she insisted. Swapping back to the left hand she sprayed another short burst of needles at the reborn.

"You bitch! I'll kill you!" he shouted.

"Save it for the reborn," she spit back. "If I can fight with half my hand burnt off, you can fight with a tiny hole in your foot."

As Maiho sent off another burst of needles she saw that Loshven was pointing the light spear crystal around the corner of the side passage. Red flashes on the corridor wall marked where the beam was hitting. It was no where near where the reborn were.

"You need to aim, Loshven."

"But the arrows will kill me!"

"The Reds' swords definitely kill you if you don't fight. Fire when Dret taps your shoulder and duck back when he taps again. Trust Dret, he has done this before. Quickly the Reds are coming," she lied.

With a moan of terror Loshven leaned around the corner not even waiting for Dret to tap him. Maiho saw one of the hunters light up with a red glow and a yelp came from behind the hunter indicating at least one of the Red was hit.

She ducked back behind the shield and concentrated. Tavia said that a Singer could feel a connection, a link between her and the crystal she had sung. Exhaling she expanded her awareness, pushing though the clammer and confusion. She could almost see what the hunter was seeing. She reached out with her crystal craw and hit the noise maker. It flew, bouncing off the wall and spinning down the corridor. The noise reduced and it was easier to think. She leaped towards the reds. They came apart like bags of blood and meat. Her mind rebelled, she tried to pull away. Forget! Don't think about it. Don't remember! It was too close. Too immediate. Usually when she killed someone it was at a distance. If she squinted it could almost be a play. The smell, well you couldn't really pretend with the smell. But this was worse than the smell. She tried not think about the sticky stuff on her claws. Was this what Tavia felt? With a silent command to her companion she galloped towards the whites and the green. "Leave one alive too spread alarm," she ordered, then severed the connection and found Jep holding her tightly. She didn't want to see what happened when the shard hunters caught up with the reborn. She knew that they were monsters. She knew that they deserved it, but they looked human and they felt human when she... Don't think about it.

"Whats wrong?" asked Jep.

"Nothings wrong," she said hoarsely.

"You're crying and shaking!"

"I'm fine!" She swiped away half the wetness with her upper arm, careful to avoid getting blood on her face. But no, it was her other arms that were covered with blood. These hands were clean. 


"We'd better fix Loshven before his groaning and moaning bring down another lot of reborn on us," she said, straightening up and leaving the shelter of the shield.

"You bitch!" yelled Loshven. His face was also wet with tears. Whether from pain or from fear she was uncertain.

"Mind your tongue." Her voice was hard and unfeeling. A small part of her observed as from a distance. She felt wrung out, as if all her emotions had been used up. "Do you want me to heal you or not?"

"Of course I want you to heal me, you..." Maiho stopped him with a finger to his lips. "If you have any sense of self preservation, you will not finish that sentence."

"Heal me," he demanded between gritted teeth.

Fishing her crystal knife from her pouch she sliced off the head of the quarrel in one smooth motion. Dret and Jep moved to hold Loshven down as Maiho took a firm grip on the tail of the quarrel.

"No, wait. Healer's balm, please, give me healer's balm."

"Sorry." Maiho pulled the quarrel out using a steady pressure as Loshven screamed. His screams only got louder as she used the healing crystal to force his would closed and to stimulate the regrow of his flesh.

"You bitch, I'm telling Illia on you."

"What are you going to say? That you stood in the middle of an intersection like an idiot and drew a reborn ambush on us because you were recklessly noisy," she said harshly.

"You were going in the wrong direction."

"The turn off is the next intersection, not this one."

"How do you know you're not wrong?" he challenged.

"Did Illia teach you how to use your colour to improve your memory?"

"Cheap White Wand Archivists tricks! I'm Blue Wave Priest caste. I don't need those kinds of short cuts."

"Well apparently you do. I impressed the map of this section of the nest, and the map of the route we needed to take, on my colour. I can see that map as clearly as if it is in front of me now," she said. "So I am right and you are wrong and if you keep on arguing with me I will just leave you here. Come on we need to get back before more reborn arrive."

"But the mission?" Loshven protested.

"The mission has been successful. We're done."

"But the food?"

"There was very little likelihood that food was in that storage area. The reborn have finally wised up and stopped using the cold rooms. We have made a ruckus and reborn will send warriors to search for us. Kin and Lethia have a similar mission. With the fuss that both our groups have made there will be less warriors guarding the entrance and Illia and Tavia will be able to get out and forage."

"But thats not what Illia told me."

"You didn't need to know,"

"But..."

"Enough! Do you hear Jep and Dret arguing? We need to go now. Urthrem said that there were no reborn Singers in this area, but that can change at anytime. Trust me you are not ready to face Singers. Dret, help him stand, we are going."


+++++

{b}Location{/b} Maiho and Kernan's Quarters, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Dawn Sleep 2800 hours (37  hours before dusk) {br}

Maiho forced her gummed up eyes open. It was hot. So hot. Her head ached and she was so thirsty. There was something very hot, very heavy, and very sweaty on top of her. It was Kernan. She pushed and wriggled until she was mostly out from under him. Water, she needed water. Her pouch should be next to the sleeping platform. She twisted, her hand blindly flailing about, groping until it finally closed on the shoulder strap of her bag. Searching inside she found her healing crystal. Should she heal her headache? No, she just got rid of the last lot of crystal energy. She found her canteen. The water was warm but she gulped it down.

More, she needed more. She spotted Kernan's bag on the end of platform. Just this once she decided she was going forgive him. She twisted the other direction and it felt as if her joints were going to pop. Her whole body was sore. It had been a long time since she had felt this bad, in fact she hadn't been in this much pain since her mother regrew her hand. With a grunt she hooked the bag with her foot and pulled it towards her. There was a canteen inside quickly she took a gulp, exploding into a coughing fit as liquid fire flowed down her throat. What was that? Cheep Wine? Illegal Sunshine? Thankfully there seemed to be another canteen. She sniffed the second canteen and took a careful slip. It was plain water. It was too warm and the canteen was only a third full, but at least it washed away the burning sensation. The first level was too hot in the daytime. It was times like this that she wished she could sleep more often in the cool seven level library. She should take a shower. She hunched up then collapsed in exhaustion. Maybe later. She shouldn't complain. If it was hot here it would be worse in the shambles and there was no running water.

This reminded her about her crazy plan to let the shamblers back into the second level. Poor Raeha. Poor Huglek. The shamblers had waited 800 hundred-days, surely she could thought about all the ramifications for a few days before acting. But who would have thought that Huifa would have been so reckless. It was so out of character. Huifa was alway so cautious and patient. She was famous for waiting tens of hundred-day to revenge some small slight. If anyone was going to do something foolish she would have pick Belshat. And while he didn't have many enforcers left, he still had lots of low level thugs on the payroll and while most thugs wouldn't be willing to go against a Singer there were alway a few with too much ambition and too little sense.

She remember a rumour about Huifa and Huglek, they were supposed to be a thing back when he was senior priest. It was the kind of scandalous secret that the gossip mongers liked to natter on about. A singer and a non-singer and both on the council no less. It made the fuss that the council made about Feibu's and Sebram's relationship seem hypocritical. It was all nonsense anyway, the books in the hidden seventh level library said that a persons colour came from their mother so the father whether Singer or non-Singer was irrelevant.

If the rumour about them were true maybe the attack was wasn't about the Families losing control of the council after all. Maybe it was just about jealousy. Huglek went straight to Huifa's, he didn't seem to have considered Belshat a suspect at all. Maybe he had recognised one of Huifa's enforcers or maybe he knew more about Huifa and what she was capable of than she did. It didn't matter, all that mattered was the consequences and how she saw going to deal with them. 

She groaned as she remembered how confident she had been as she tried to twist everybody around her finger. She had been dunk on too much vitality. Everything and anything had seemed possible. Sure Belshat seemed frighten when he had found out she was a Source, but how long was he going to stay frightened, how long before he remembered that she was just the harmless little girl that he had always looked down on. Of course, he should be aware by now that she was not as harmless as she looked. He should. But every time she thought he understood that he disappointed her and needed to be taught another lesson. 

And why did she think it was a good idea to use Theoka against her own father. Sure, she complains all the time about her father and constantly on and on until you wanted to tell her enough already, but that didn't mean she would be willing to do anything about it. Maybe she could explain it in term of Theoka rescuing her father, keeping him a safe distance from Huglek. It wasn't usurping her father's power at all she was just protecting his interests. Putting it that way she could almost believe it herself. Now she just had to persuade Theoka. 

The most scariest thing was how helpful Thiona was. Thiona was only helpful when she was scheming and only friendly when she was about to stab you in the back. She was definitely up to something and when Maiho found out what it was she was sure it would be a very unpleasant surprise.

Given any opening Foenad would go back on any agreements she need to make sure he didn't have any choice about the matter.

If Kevlin or Yeoni found out how she had used her power as a Singer to threaten the rest of the council it would undermine their alliance. It hit all the wrong notes for them. The Families had always used the commoner's fear of Singers as a weapon to prevent the two groups from uniting against them. Someone would talk and once that happen she would have to do some fast talking to keep her alliance in the shade, otherwise it would disappear as quick as mana in sunlight.

And who was she going to leave in charge when she went to the gather. She had been counting on Laivo, but Laivo had said no and Maiho knew better than to think she would change her mind.

Wendam was too nice, too agreeable. Her father was worse. Her mother had spent her entire life avoiding responsibility. Feibu was stubborn enough, but she would laugh in Maiho face if she asked her. Huglek was stricken with grief. The Gardiner was scary enough to make the Family heads toe the line, but putting the head of the village's organised crime in charge of the village's law making body seemed problematic. If Kevlin or Yeoni could stand up to the Families then the craftsmen and the farmers wouldn't be in so much difficulty. Bardre and Nargre were shamblers, the other councillors barely tolerated them as Council members they definitely wouldn't take orders from them. Besides the guard should take orders from the Council not the other way round. And also Bardre was a crazy sadistic bitch and Nargre wasn't much better. And Thiona, if she had to trust Thiona she might as well cut her own throat. It would be less painful and less messy. Foenad, Belshat and Logwan where only slightly better than Thiona in that they were predictably bad, instead of being completely unpredictable. She wanted to eliminate Theoka as well. She didn't know Theoka as well as her other friends and her love / hate relationship with her father made it difficult to assess where her true loyalties lay. But if she eliminated Theoka she wouldn't have anyone on her list at all. She had time she didn't have to make a decision straight away. However maybe she should have a long talk with Theoka. Several long talks.

She checked her time crystal. She needed to get some sleep. She needed to wake up early. She had a lot to do this wake cycle. The trouble was, there were so many though flowing though her head, she was tired though. She closed her eyes and steadied her breathing. Maybe eventually she would fall ...

++++++

{b}Location{/b} Vision {br}
{b}Time{/b} Dawn Sleep 2900 hours (36  hours before dusk) {br}

There was color and noise. Maiho rose above the clamor. To the north she could see a red shield, to the east she could see a white sword. In the far South West there was a green wolf and to the far North West there was a black boulder. She move towards the boulder.

There was a rough hewn statue alone on a plain. The statue opened it eyes. "You shouldn't be here."

"Yet here I am."

The statue frowned. "You're hurt."

"I'm fine."

"No you're not. You almost died."

"Thats an exaggeration."

"The fuck it is. You tried to hold too much crystal energy, didn't you. It's burnt deeply into your soul. You can't do that. It will kill you sooner or later."

"I need a divining crystal."

"The fuck you do. I don't think you are taking this seriously enough. You need be more careful."

"I am careful. I'm fine. No need to worry about me. Now about that crystal, I only need to borrow it for a short time."

"Will you stop going on about divining crystals. Even if I had a spare one, I couldn't get one I couldn't get it to you. I'm halfway across the five lands from you."

"There is a gather at Blue Moon and were there is a gather there is at least two Diviners, a young one and an old one. You are well respected by the younger..."

"Stop it. You have bigger problems than whatever scheme you are nattering about."

The statue leaned closer, examining Maiho carefully. "How are you reaching so far? And with so little vitality. Oh no. You are using the vitality that is keep you alive. You need to wake up right now. After you wake you need to Sing crystal straight away."

The statue slapped her face and her jaw exploded in pain. It felt like she had been hit with a rock. "Wake up!" it screamed.
++++++


{b}Location{/b} Maiho and Kernan's Quarters, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Dawn Sleep 3000 hours (36 hours before dusk) {br}

Maiho woke up with a start, Urthrem's shout echoing in her ears.






















 