Chapter 5 : Checkup

{b}Location{/b} Wilderness near Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Pre-Dawn 1000 hours (5 hours before dawn) {br}


Maiho scanned her surroundings as she ate her sandwich. Her shard mount Veuto was following the shard crab just as she told her to. Briefly she thought about the original Veuto, dead so many hundred-days before, before shying away from that terrible memory. She spotted Wendam and signaled him to come over. 

“Kernan! Where is he?” she barked, her voice full of tension and frustration.

“And a good waking to you too,” replied Wendam.

“Wendam! Where is my Orock-judged boyfriend?” 

“Half of the guard are on our back trail gathering Mana. Kernan is helping them.”

“Get off your shard mount and join me on the shard crab so I don’t have to shout at you,” Wendam leant down next to his mounts head out of the view of others, sang a short command, then leapt onto the shard crab wagon tray joining Maiho on the make shift bed Nargre had organized for Bardre. “Why does he have to pick now to be civic minded?” she asked in frustration.

“I think he is afraid you want to screw him.” 

“Of course, I want to screw him. I sang two healing crystals dry. Much of that crystal energy is inside me now. It used to drain out of me naturally like a normal person. Now it bounces around inside me until I give it to someone.”


“I’m not sure I blame him. Did you know your eyes are glowing?”

“Going by the boasting and obsessing on the topic, most boyfriends would not have a problem satisfying me, glowing eyes or not.”

“Okay. Changing the topic. What is with the new rank necklace?”

“Bardre made me Mounted Maneuvers Drill Instructor.”

“That's interesting. Looks like you got what you wanted and then some, but be careful of that woman, she is a bully, a sadist and far trickier than most people think. That promotion may be setting you up for something.”

“It was kind of creepy. She was trying to be nice to me.”

“Of course, she is being nice to you. You are keeping her alive. Also did I mention that your eyes are glowing and your hair is sticking out floating up in the air? Dis himself would piss in his breechclout if he saw you now.”

“Ha, Ha. Very funny, you do know, she is right there. She could be only pretending to be asleep.”

“Is she?”

“No.”

“How can you tell? You barely glanced at her.”

“It is easier with people who have more color, but this close I can still tell even with someone as faded as Bardre. Have you heard of any other Singer being able to sense people and their state of being?”

“I will ask Laivo but I don’t think there is anything like that in her records. Are you sure about this?”


“I can do things, that blues are not supposed be able to do. Sensing how alert someone is, and whether they are paying attention to you, is something a Diviner can do.” 

“But you’re a Healer, not a Diviner.”

“I think I might be both, and a Hunt’s Mistress as well. I think it has to do with my time at the Village of Lost Souls.”

“How would you know if you have Hunt’s Mistress Skills? You don’t have a Hunter.”

“Hunt’s Mistress Skills work on any Artificia,” said Maiho avoiding mention of her Hunters. She closed her eyes and hummed. She had sung to most the guard’s shard crabs at one time or another. This formed a link with them and since all of their drivers used flutes, rather than their voices, those links only decayed very slowly. She felt for those links. She could feel the shard crab she was on and the ones ahead and behind. She let her senses rove farther back. There at some distance back, she felt several Artificia, and two talented people, clustered together a fair distance along their back track. She sang under her breath activating a link with a shard crab she had named Goina. She started to feel a headache as images from multiple eyes invaded her consciousness, she focused on one eye, swiveled it around until she picked out Kernan and Feibu on their shard mounts, leaning close and talking.

“How is Bardre?” asked Wendam breaking Maiho out of her trance. 

“If we reach a healing alter, she will be fine. {b}If{/b} she makes it until then,” said Maiho. She closed her eyes, hummed and reached out ahead. “We’re about two hours from the day nest,” she said.

“That sounds about right. So you think she might not last until then?”

“I did a lot of damage and her heart beat is irregular,” she said glancing at Bardre’s pale still figure. 

“Despite her personal deficiencies she {b}isn’t{/b} a bad captain.” Wendam twisted his face in a way that indicated that it caused him physical pain to admit this. “Can’t you do more for her?” he asked.


“Healing crystals can only do so much. I tried to give her vitality but I couldn’t. I don’t know whether it is because she doesn’t have enough color or whether it’s because I don’t like her.”

“Why would liking her matter?”

“It helps if you feel a connection. Why do you think I name the Artificia I sing to?” she asked. “Let me try something.” She placed a hand on his shoulder and willed vitality into him. It barely made a difference to the amount of vitality she was holding, her skin still itched and her nerves still buzzed. She did notice that it was easier if she touched him on his patterns rather than his unmarked skin. She tried the same thing with Bardre, but even she when touched her on her patterns she still couldn’t give her more than a tiny trickle of vitality.

Maiho tried touching Wendam again. She hummed trying to detect what was the difference between his patterns and his unmarked skin, sending her senses into his body. It almost felt as if there were crystals in the pattern. She focused sensing a similar feeling deeper inside his body. She sang the healing song and the faint points of light she was sensing flared into brilliance. She could how sense crystals throughout Wendam’s body and by attuning herself to those crystals she could sense what was happening inside Wendam with a clarity she had never managed before. “You have very bad bruising on your side, arms and chest,” she noted. 

“Kernan was pretty rough in drill this waking.” 

“There is no excuse for this. Let me try something,” she said, finding yet another reason to feel annoyed with Kernan. Maiho restarted the healing song, trying to coax the crystals inside Wendam into healing his body. To her amazement it seemed to partially work. It also seemed to drain a little of her vitality.

“It tingles, but I actually feel better.”

Maiho switched to Bardre and sung trying to find the same crystals in her. There were far fewer crystals and when Maiho tried to command them to heal. Bardre’s breath became short, her face darkened and she moaned. Maiho felt Bardre’s heart flutter and struggle. Maiho grabbed her bag and riffled though it, until found a red vial.  She unstopped it, and placed one drop from the vial on Bardre’s tongue. Bardre's distress subsided. Maiho clasped her hands together to stop them shaking.

“I almost killed her. I tried to heal her the way I healed you and I nearly killed her,” she said when she got the shakes under control.


“Is it because she is so ill?”

“No, it’s because she has almost no color. I knew it was harder to heal someone the less color they had, but now I am starting to understand why.”

“Yeah, Bardre and Nargre are both from the Shambles. You can tell from their names as well as other things. The entire Shambles has less than a thimble full of talent between the lot of them. It probably explains some of Bardre’s attitudes as well. The Shambles is not a forgiving section of the nest. What did you give her?” Wendam asked.

“A stimulant. It strengthens the heart.”

“So there is nothing more you can do for her?”

“Not unless I can give her more color,” Maiho said sadly. Maiho had gained color as she had gotten older. She started singing, turning her focus inwards, placing her hands on her stomach. She had far more crystals inside her than Wendam, but she noticed something else, something felt wrong inside her. 

Maiho started to untie Wendam breechclout. “You know I usually prefer a little foreplay, before I get down to business,” complained Wendam.

“Raise yourself up. I want to check something.”

“I doubt my equipment is that different from Kernan’s.”

“Just relax I am a healer. I do this all the time,” Maiho said.

“Somehow I doubt it. Hey! Your hands are cold,” he complained. Maiho sang focusing on the delicate sack in her hand. It was the same.

“Wendam, do you want to have children?”

“Naedri’s tits! Maiho, there is no reason to threaten me. You know I would do anything for you.”

“I’m not threatening you. I’m offering to heal you,” she said exasperated.

“Of what?”

“I think I have figured out why singers have such a hard time having children. I think I can fix it.”

“You {b}think{/b} you know? No thanks. I don’t want to be your little experimental night rat.” he said.

Maiho sensed the driver’s attention focus on them. Wendam had been too loud. “I know what I am doing. You will be fine,” she whispered.

“I trust you with my life. I just don’t trust you with my {i}balls{/i}. I am kind of attached to them.”

“Do you want to have children or not?” she asked. 

“I think I will try the old fashioned method. After all it was good enough for my parents and it was good enough for yours,” he said. Maiho couldn’t understand why he had so much difficulty with this, everybody knew that the singer caste and especially active Singers had a difficult time conceiving. Surely what she was trying to tell him was not far from what he already knew. Then she realized that to Wendam, difficult meant that you had to try really hard, it didn’t mean that you might not succeed however hard you tried.

“How long have you and Laivo been trying?” 

“Slightly longer than you and Kernan.”

“You two have been at it like night hares since you were both 15 hundred-days. That’s at least a hundred-day sooner than Kernan arrived. Plus I was never under the delusion that I would get pregnant. I have sung too much crystal. I always believed I would be childless like my Great Aunt Viune. Now however - ”, she paused uncertain how to end the sentence. Did she want children?

“That can’t be right. If that were true the singers couldn’t have children at all, you would never have been born.”

“My father hasn’t sung since his lessons with the Song Master as a child and my mother had just been made junior healer when I was conceived, and from all accounts she did all she could to avoid singing. She still does. You notice I don’t have any brothers or sisters. Wendam, how often do you sing?”

“I am not a Singer, I am not allowed to sing,” denied Wendam.

“How often do you sing?” she asked with an edge in her voice. 

There was a long silence before Wendam finally admitted, “Now and again, quietly, when people can’t hear me.”

“It’s more than now and again, I can see the color in you. Laivo sings to her books all the time, in the sound proof consulting rooms or in her little greeter’s box. I am going to have to fix her as well.”

“You are not touching Laivo.”

“You mean without experimenting on someone else first? I wonder where I would get a volunteer? You know what she is going to say when I offer. She really wants children.” she threatened.

“You can be a real manipulative razor-claw sometimes. Just make it quick,” he said, giving in.

Maiho grasped his ball sack and sang, focusing on shifting the crystals to other parts of his body. Wendam suppressed a yelp. She healed and tweaked until the sense of wrongness disappeared.

“How do you feel?”

“You can see how I feel. And by the way you can let go any time.”

“Wendam, can you diddle me? Like you used to do when we were younger?” she whispered

“People will see, and aren’t we a little old to be playing healer and greeter?”

“The side walls of the wagon tray will hide what we are doing and I really need it.”

“Bardre is not looking good, shouldn’t you be focused on her?”

“I’m just going around in circles with Bardre. In order to help her any more with singing I need her to have more colour. The only thing I can think of that might improve her colour is for her to sing, but that is a fairly useless idea, even if she was in any condition to sing, and ignoring all the other problems, it would take hundred-days of her singing to make any difference,” she said. Maiho glanced at her right hand and its darker bluer colour. Maybe she could add colour to someone using a healing altar, but again that was a fairly useless idea in the present circumstances. “I have one more crazy idea that probably won’t work, but first I need some relief.” She started stroking his cock.

“You are crazy, someone will notice. Hey, that tingles.”

“Just touch me, please.”

“I know that I’ll regret this,” he complained.

“Just hurry up.”

She almost jumped up when he spread her outer lips with his fingers, then ran his middle finger along her moist inner folds. 

“Careful, I am really sensitive at the moment,” she complained, breathing heavily. “I need something inside me.”

Wendam glanced down at where she was gripping his firm cock, pulling it up and down.

Maiho resisted the urge to tell him what she really wanted. She licked her lips and forced herself to whisper. “Your fingers will be fine.”

He looked at her intently as his fingers teased at her folds. His palm pressed against her clit and his finger worried at her entrance. His lips looked so soft, so inviting it was torture stopping herself from leaning forward and kissing him.

“Just put it in will you,” she gasped.

His palm rubbed against her clit as his finger thrust into her.
She ached with the need to thrust her hips into his hand. She clamped down on his finger and she squeezed his rigid member in her hand, trying not to think about how much she wanted it inside her instead of his finger. His eyes were such a brilliant blue you could get lost in them. His face glowed with emotion.

As he curled his finger rubbing against her front wall and pressed his palm against her clit, she couldn’t help but inch forward and flick her hips in a rocking motion trying to force his hand harder against her clit, his finger deeper inside her.

She could almost feel what it would be like to push him back onto the bed and straddle him forcing the hard thickness that she was milking, deep inside herself. Her hands rose of their own accord to force him back, but she forced them back down.

Her skin burned and sweat trickled down her skin. He forced his ring finger inside her to join his middle finger, stretching her, filling her. She looked at him, so close, yet so far away. How she wanted to press her breasts against his chest, fill her hungry mouth with his lips, taste his tongue, encircling his torso with her arms. 

She trembled and shook as the excitement coursed through her, her hips lifted further above her heels and she tried to thrust, the tension built higher and higher until she felt she was going to explode. As she approached the point of no return she reached back and touched Bardre’s leg. She let go and there was an explosive release as a wave of glorious ecstasy swept through her body, but it didn’t stop at her body, the energy flooded out of her through Wendam’s fingers and cock, a startled ecstatic expression crossed his face as he came all over her legs and stomach. Some of the energy flowed into Bardre. Maiho felt Bardre wake up, although she gave no visible sign. She already looked less pale and was breathing easier.

Maiho checked on Wendam, he was holding on to vitality better than Kernan did. It usually ran out of Kernan like he was a sieve. The vitality was already gone from Bardre, but it seemed to have done some good on the way through.

“Are you okay? I didn’t fry anything or zap you?” she asked self-consciously. She thought about Laivo guiltily, Laivo had never minded sharing Wendam with her when they were younger, she just hoped she wouldn’t mind now.

“That was the most amazing thing I have ever felt. You know there is no way someone didn’t notice something. If Kernan hated me before he is going to loathe me now,” said Wendam. Maiho cleaned herself up with fiber tree leaves from her bag and some water from her canteen.

“He doesn’t hate you.”

“Yes he does. He has always envied how close you, I and Laivo are,” he said. “You know, you would be within your rights to ask for outside help on the grounds that he has failed to get you with child, even if you were married, which you are not.”

“One, I’m your cousin. Two, what we did wasn’t designed to conceive children. Three, it’s not Kernan's fault that I haven’t gotten pregnant and four, I’m not sure I want children,” said Maiho.

“Don’t tell anyone else that you don’t want children. Especially don’t tell Kernan,” he said. “Kernan is very keen on following the rules. It wouldn’t hurt to use that against him every now and again. You didn’t mind trying to use their own rules against Bardre and the council.”

“Yes, and look how that turned out. Also the council is not my boyfriend.”

“What are you going to do the next time Kernan leaves you in the lurch with your eyes glowing and your hair fizzing out?” he asked.

“I will deal with that if it happens. Are you going tell Laivo about what just happened?”

“Yes, she is not going to mind. I already have permission to do a lot more than what we did.”

“How did that topic of conversion arise?” she asked cautiously.

“Laivo knows a lot more about your situation than you think. You really need to talk to her,” he said. “Aren’t you worried that Kernan will tell Logwan or the council about your Great Aunt’s trunk?”

“He doesn’t know anything and if he does talk they will just think I found a valuable cache of artefacts that once belonged to Vuine.”

“Artefacts that she never used while she was alive. Also where exactly would she be able to hide an entire library and armory? You didn’t have that second sword before and how many healing crystals do you have anyway? They are supposed to be quite rare,” he asked.

“I have found out the hard way that you can never have too many healing crystals, and before you ask, it is time to show everyone the trunk. I want everyone to meet me at your place at 3300 hours, that’s Laivo, you, Feibu and Sebram. I’ll need all of you to help me put together a training program for Mounted Maneuvers. Are you all okay changing from Sword Drill to Mounted Maneuvers Drill?”

“So you are stripping Jetrel all of his best, most senior students?”

“I need you more than he does,” she said.

“My place is going to be too small for all of us.”

“We are meeting up there, but moving to the trunk after everyone arrives.”

“And Kernan isn’t invited?” he asked.

“No.”

“What about Laivo? Surely you don’t intend to put her on a shard mount.”

“I need Laivo to help me research Mounted Maneuvers. I have only met one other person who could read as fast as Laivo,” she explained.

“I’m glad you finally decided to trust us.”

“Can you organize everything?”

“Leave it with me. Bardre looks better,” he noted.

“Yes, I think she is going to make it. Can you send Sebram to me?”

“No problem.” He straightened his breechclout and leapt back onto his mount. Maiho watched with mixed feelings as he went.

“You can stop pretending to be asleep Bardre.”

“That trunk business sounded interesting,” Bardre commented.

“I have access to books and weapons that could be helpful. Can I rely on you to take advantage of these resources while keeping their existence quiet?”

“You can always rely on me to take advantage.”

Maiho decide to let that pass. “Did any of the old timers train under the previous Mounted Maneuvers Drill Instructor?”

“Polged assisted old Webral from memory. It has been a long time since we did Mounted Maneuvers.”

“Can I have Polged?”

“Sure, if you can get him out of his comfortable chair in the compound. He is 60 if he is a day and keeps track of record crystals these days,” said Bardre.

“Were you serious about me doing this?”

“I think it will help the trainees, and I think it will show me, and everyone else what you are made of.”

“So this is another test?” asked Maiho.

“Of course! Everything in life is a test.”

Bardre closed her eyes, and after a while fell asleep again.

Sebram dropped by later and Maiho tried giving him some vitality. It was easier than giving vitally to Bardre but harder than giving it to Wendam. She ended up coming to no firm conclusions.

After Sebram left, Maiho placed her hand on her stomach and contemplated the damage inside her. She decided not to do anything about it for now, but it was nice to have a choice. She watched the night trees pass by and thought about how her new insights would affect the approach she would take in her treatment of Bardre’s injuries.

++++++

{b}Location{/b} Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}
{b}Time{/b} Pre-Dawn 1200 hours (3 hours before dawn) {br}

Finally, the air lock of the village came into view. 

Maiho was not used to returning so soon. There was barely a glow in the Eastern sky and the usual predawn hot eastern wind was barely a breeze, a shadow of what it would be in a couple of hours.


Wendam rode up and played the activation sequence to open the outer doors of the air lock on his flute. The much reduced guard caravan streamed into the air lock and Wendam then closed the outer doors. As the doors slammed shut, Maiho thought about Kernan, Feibu and the others. They were only about an hour behind. She told herself that they should be fine. Wendam opened the inner doors and they were inside the nest. 

They continued down the main thoroughfare journeying into the cooler, deeper sections of the nest. The guard caravan pulled into the guard compound and the wagons pulled into the unloading area. Wendam commandeered two hefty guards from the unloading crew and they slid Bardre onto a stretcher, then carried her off the wagon and onto the loading docks. It seemed to take ages to shoulder their way to the southern healing clinic through the busy blue corridors. Pelfra was at the front desk, her daughter Laivo, as usual was reading in one of the side consulting rooms. Laivo rushed out when she saw them through the window. There were only a few people in the waiting area.

“Is the altar being used?” asked Maiho.

“I have only just finished.” replied Maiho’s mother from the inner doors where she was escorting councilwoman Huifa out of the inner temple.

“I need to treat Bardre straight away.”

“What happened to her?” Telvra asked.

“Training accident,” replied her daughter, gesturing to the stretcher bearers as she barged into the inner temple. The stretcher bearers slid Bardre onto the altar. The altar was unlocked so she started straight into the second half of the healing prayer. Bardre sank into the crystal altar and disappeared from ordinary view, but not from Maiho’s extra senses.

“Do you need help?” asked Telvra.

“No, I have got this.” The last thing Maiho needed was her mother interfering if she needed to do anything unconventional. Telvra, who never needed much excuse to avoid singing, left.

Maiho began her work.


