Chapter 7 : Clinic++++++{b}Location{/b} Southern Healing Clinic, Waterless Shore, Blue Wave Territory  {br}{b}Time{/b} Warming (Morning) 1630 hours (48 {sup}1{/sup}/{small}2{/small} hours before dusk) {br}The clinic was quiet, with only a young man with a bandaged hand and a young woman with a crying child waiting to see Telvra. Maiho went straight to the consulting room where she had left Bardre. She was surprised to find Nargre, Bardre and Jetrel huddled together naked on the rather small bed.Nargre looked at her with hostility. “What have you done to her? And where have you been? ”“Get up off the bed, and let me examine her so we can find out,” ordered Maiho.“You have made her into a freak,” complained Nargre, slipping off the bed and standing with arms crossed under her small breasts pushing them up. Nargre was almost as tall as spidery Bardre, but with a longer torso and shorter limbs which were toned and athletic. Her hair was short but not as closely cropped as Bardre’s and the colour of her hair and patterns were a blue-green that was darker and bluer than Bardre’s patterns had been.However Bardre had changed since Maiho had seen her last. Her hair was now brown with silver threads running through it. Maiho had never seen silver hair. Most of the aquamarine patterns had disappeared and been replaced with brilliant blue patterns on her stomach and side plus one lonely pattern on her leg right where Maiho had been touching her when Wendam had brought her to orgasm. “What did you do to her?” repeated Nargre.Maiho reached out and touched Bardre on her patterns. She hummed, extending her senses, assessing Bardre’s condition. “I tried to give her more colour around her wound, unfortunately it seems to have taken the colour from the rest of her body.”“You did this on purpose! This will destroy her life. She can’t be seen looking like this.” “I will attempt to restore her normal colour once she has healed,” said Maiho endeavoring to stay calm and reasonable. “Has she woken?”“For about half an hour then she went back to sleep.” replied Nargre. “If you don’t fix this I will beat you to within a finger width of your life.”“Stop harassing the poor girl,” cautioned Jetrel, raising his head from behind Bardre. “Bardre ordered you to leave her alone.”“Did she eat?” asked Maiho.“Yes, Laivo gave her some tube worm soup. She had quite the appetite,” said Jetrel. “You will fix her appearance, won’t you? She will be quite upset when she gets hold of a mirror.”“I have had some success in moving colour from one part of the body to another. So I should be able to improve matters,” stated Maiho. “How quickly did the change take place?”“Slowly over the course of a couple of hours,” said Nargre.“Your mother was quite useless. We called her in to ask her why Bardre’s colour was changing and she muttered something about people from the Shambles and fled,” complained Jetrel.“She seems to be healing nicely,” said Maiho. “Fetch me when she wakes up again. Make sure she gets plenty of water and food, and make sure she doesn’t overexert herself.” Maiho gave Nargre and Jetrel her best Healer’s stern look.“She didn’t exert herself too much,” smirked Jetrel in a way that was totally at odds with her previous perception of the mild mannered Sword Instructor.“You aren’t going to just leave her like this, are you?” objected Nargre.“The extra colour around her wound is helping her heal. I am not going to mess with it until she is feeling better,” stated Maiho.“She was energetic and perky enough before. I’d say she’s healed,” argued Nargre.“She became tired very quickly, and have you ever known her to fall asleep like this in the middle of the wake portion of the sleep cycle?” asked Jetrel.“You can talk about this among yourselves, I will check back in an hour,” said Maiho exiting the consulting room.“Hey! You come back here!”“Leave it Nargre, let her go.”Escaping from the room Maiho collapsed on a chair in the waiting room. The girl with the baby had gone into the temple leaving the man with the damaged hand as the last patient.“You look as if a war Artificia trampled you,” said a voice behind her.“It has been a tough morning, Laivo.”“With Bardre?” asked the beautiful healer caste girl as she sat down next to Maiho. Maiho’s best friend Laivo took after her mother, Pelfra. She was slightly taller than Maiho and had a fuller figure with large aureoles. Her patterns and long thick hair were bright blue. She was toned but not as athletic as her friend.“And Nargre, but mainly Kernan. I kind of left our relationship out in the sunlight,” said Maiho.“That bad huh! So what did he do to push you over the edge?”“He kept on stealing my message crystals.”“No, really! What did he do?” asked Laivo.“My decision to leave Kernan out of our little trip next waking, has been bothering me. How can I be with someone, when I can’t trust them enough, to share the most important parts of my life?”“You can’t. Goodbye and good riddance.”“Laivo! Don’t just agree with me,” complained Maiho. An old woman walked into the clinic and went over to Laivo’s mother at the greeting desk.“What am I supposed to do? You don’t need that fool. Just get rid of him.”“But I do need him. With my special needs I don’t think I can be without a boyfriend.”“There are other people who would appreciate being given the chance to keep you happy,” urged Laivo. The old woman took a seat opposite and smiled at them.“I have never been with anyone other than Kernan.”

“Really! Aren’t you forgetting - “

“Other than fooling around with you and Wendam.” Maiho corrected herself dismissively.  “Who would I be with instead? Flerhan who spat at me and tried to push me when we were 11? Bozzak who - ““Don’t go through the entire list. You will only make yourself angry and you are quite intolerable when you’re angry. You will bear a grudge to the grave. You need to be more forgiving for Naedri’s sake.”“I need to be less forgiving.” she stated. The girl exited the inner temple carrying a much happier baby.“Don’t be that way,” Laivo said taking Maiho’s face in her hands and forcing her to look her in the eyes. “Wendam and I will take care of you.”“I can’t just borrow Wendam every time I need him. It would be outright theft. You would never get to see him,” objected Maiho.Laivo snorted. “That won’t be a problem,” she said with a sly smile.“It’s getting worse and worse. I no sooner get rid of one lot of crystal energy when I start to build up another.”“You are very tame compared to Vuine. You should read some of the things my grandmother wrote about her.”“Did you know about Bardre, Nargre and Jetrel?” asked Maiho.“Not really. There were some rumors, speculation really. They have kept it quiet.”“How did they do that?” asked Maiho. “I can’t do anything without it being all around the village in half an hour and Kernan can’t scratch his rear end without at least three people coming up to me and telling me about it in that, oh so concerned, tone of voice, that makes me want to shove their teeth down their throat.”“Neither you nor Kernan are very good at sneaking,” remarked Laivo.“I think I was too rough with Kernan. He’s only doing what he thinks is right.”“Why is Kernan the only person you have no trouble forgiving?”“I tried to make him see that the way the villages were run left a lot to be desired and blindly following their policies was not the best thing to do,” said Maiho.“You’ve never forgiven them for Veuto’s death have you?”“Veuto wasn’t the only one we lost. The problems with the Reborn have dragged on too long and they keep doing the same things over and over to try to solve it. The Reborn at least have the excuse that they can’t remember experiences from one life to next life,” replied Maiho. “But that wasn’t what I was talking about. As I was telling Kernan off, I realised that I was just as guilty as he was. I have been so focused on the Reborn that I have been missing other opportunities to do good. I have been thinking too small.”“You have had one of your big ideas, and you are going to charge full stride ahead like a rampaging War Artificia, trampling everyone in your path.”
“This will work. You haven’t even heard my ideas,” objected Maiho.

"Remember your idea about how to catch more mana by stringing webtree cloth between shard crabs?"

"That was a problem with coordination we just needed more practice."

"What about time you decided to breed night rabbits?" asked Laivo.

"We just needed better cages."

"What about the time -"

"Enough already. Maybe the execution of some of my ideas left a little to be desired, but most of them were good ideas," asserted Maiho.

"Humm."

"We had lunch with Song Master Huglek this predawn."

"How was the old curmudgeon?" asked Laivo.

"Happy."

"Really? When he was teaching us singing, he never smiled once."

"He has a new young wife and he looks about 40 hundred-days now," said Maiho.

"He’s a source now?"

“It would be all that singing in the classroom I would say."

"That old hypocrite. He condemned  your Aunt Viune for her {i}unnatural{/i} youth saying that she consorted with sun demons," commented Laivo.

"He seems to have had a change of heart."

"I bet he has. Why did you meet with that old fool anyway?"

"I wanted his advice on how to deal with Kernan, and I wanted to show Kernan it wasn't just me, that there were others like me. Instead he warned me about Kernan, and started lecturing me about politics, saying how evil the factions were, and how they were not to be trusted,” said Maiho.

"Still angry about how Logwan stole his job by murdering Song Master Theunis?"

"Laivo, you are too young to be that cynical."

"You are too old to be that naive. And if even Huglek can tell Kernan is bad for you doesn't that tell you something," said Laivo.

"It's a moot point. After what I said to him, I doubt that Kernan will want to have anything to do with me.

"No, you won't get rid of that cave slug so easily."

"There was another thing I wanted to talk to you about. Did Wendam talk to you about what I discovered about singing and fertility?" asked Maiho. She felt a faint pressure; someone was trying to take over a crystal that she controlled. “Sorry Laivo, I need to be quiet for a few ticks.” she said before Laivo had a chance to answer.Maiho caught a glimpse of Laivo giving her a puzzled look, before Maiho settled back, closed her eyes and focused.She reached outwards toward a distant collection of small crystals that knew her and were awaiting her commands, toward a sensation that would have signalled a life and death struggle back when she was trapped in Lost Souls. The distance was a bit of a strain, but she pushed and kept on pushing despite the disadvantage imposed by the separation. Her control of the crystal crumbled and her opponent was on the verge of gaining control of the crystal when the pressure ceased.“There isn’t anything on this. Can’t your idiot brother record a simple message?” she heard through the distant message crystal. Kenthan never seemed to sense her interference, a fact that was incomprehensible to her. In fact most singers she had met were woefully ignorant of many of the potential applications of their voice in controlling crystals. Of course, most singers had not been through what Maiho had been through. There were the veterans of the Battle of Lost Souls of course, but it was obvious that Kenthan had never fought another singer, otherwise he would have known straight away what was happening.Maiho pushed harder and a vision of an office shelves and a desk crowded with book disks and message crystals unfolded in Maiho’s mind. The workspace made Maiho’s study nook in the rooms she shared with Kernan look like a paragon of tidiness and order. Kenthan obviously had the same problem that she had, receiving far more message crystals than she sent, but on a far larger scale. Nine of those crystals that were scattered about on the desk and shoved into various baskets and stacks were hers. With each new crystal Kernan sent to his father, her ability to see and hear into the Senior Priest’s office improved. Looking at the haphazard collection of crystals, she wondered how Kenthan found anything in his office. Kenthan was seated behind his desk, before him sat a young man with a strong resemblance to Kernan and a Caravan Mistress that visited Waterless Store regularly.“Perhaps someone is interfering with Kernan’s messages,” suggested the young man, not for the first time. Maiho was aware that Laivo was saying something, but she couldn't pay attention without losing her vision of Kenthan and his cronies. “I listened to the crystal last night, and it was working,” announced the caravan mistress. Maiho suppressed a curse. She should have locked the message crystal. She wondered why she hadn't felt the woman access the crystal, perhaps it had been while she had been sleep or distracted or when there had been a lot of 'noise' with people interacting with the crystals she had a bond with.“You listened to my brother’s private message?” asked the Junior Priest in outrage.“Well, after the fuss your father made the last time, I thought I should check.”“That doesn’t excuse butting into our affairs, Sioma.”“Sioma has my utmost confidence, unlike Kernan. She did the right thing by checking the crystal. Kendar, you are always making excuses for your brother, but we both know that if he ever manages to do anything useful I shall die of shock,” stated Kenthan.“Perhaps the crystal is broken,” suggested Sioma.“Crystals don’t break, they always do what they are supposed to do. They are creations of the Eldar, not some stick of furniture cobbled together by a wood craftsman,” contradicted Kendar.“It matters little what has caused this, such things have a habit of happening around Kernan. Sioma, I want you to tell Temtop and Barmodge to have a little chat with my younger son when you are in Waterless Shore,” instructed KenthanKendar opened his mouth to object, but kept quiet after a stern look from his father.“What was on the crystal when you listened to it, Sioma?” asked Kenthan.“Prices, estimates of demand for goods, changes to tariffs that Logwan was trying get the council to pass,” said Sioma.“Give that information to Councilor Clytid, I’m not interested in that sort of thing myself.” said Kenthan. “What else?”“Logwan has partially lost control of Waterless Shore’s council.”“Partially? Isn’t that like being a little bit pregnant? Either you have control or you don’t.” “Many of the votes are ending up in a 4-4 deadlock,” explained Sioma.“How can a 9 member council end up with a 4-4 tie?” asked Kenthan. “No, don’t tell me. I don’t care. All I care about is whether I can count on Logwan’s vote in the council of councils.”“His opponents would need a majority to replace him as Waterless Shore’s representative. Actually it might interest you to know that the reason why Logwan has lost control of - ““I don’t care.”Sioma looked frustrated at this interruption. Kendar gave her a sympathetic look. Maiho could guess what Sioma had been about to say, and knew that Kenthan had just denied himself important information. Sioma wasn’t going to bring up the topic again for fear of his displeasure. “He also said he confirmed the accuracy of his earlier assertions about his girlfriend’s special abilities. She can definitely sense other singer caste members at a distance and even non singer caste members close up.”Kenthan’s expression darkened. Kendar either missed this or ignored it.“Diviners are our best weapon against the Reborn. If healers could be trained to detect Reborn then - “ argued Kendar.“We can deal with the Reborn, without blaspheming. Diviners are intended by Orock to divine and Healers are intended by Naedri to heal,” asserted Kenthan angrily.“Some villages are lucky to get a Diviner to visit once every two hundred days,” continued Kendar with some frustration.“Kendar, I raised you better than that. First Kernan associates with that purple cursed freak and now you blaspheme and want to throw away everything I taught you.”“You are the one who wanted Kernan to make friends with the healer girl,” complained Kendar.“Make friends with her, yes. Sleep with her, no.”“One of these days you will find yourself Song Master and have to put up with not getting your own way.”“Until then you will cheerfully and respectfully follow my instructions otherwise Barmodge would be quite happy to assume the duties of Junior Priest,” yelled Kenthan.Laivo was trying to get Maiho’s attention, shaking her shoulder, so she let go of the vision of the arguing Priests and fell back into the here and now of the healing clinic waiting room. Her head ached, her neck was sore and she felt sluggish and drained of vitality. Perhaps this was an answer to the crystal energy problem. Only as a last resort she decided."Care to tell me what that was about. Were you asleep?” Laivo asked. “I couldn't get you to respond.""I will tell you next cycle."Laivo gave her an annoyed look. "Bardre is awake.” "Do we have any food for her?" Maiho asked."Mother has some tube worm and frilled fungus soup, on the boil.”“She will be hungry. Give her some soup and some mana bread if you have it. I'll be there shortly."Maiho ducked into an empty consulting room before an exasperated Laivo could think of an objection. A few hundred ticks later, she caught up with Laivo as she was leaving Bardre’s room. She handed Laivo three message crystals.“The indigo goes to Yeoni, the cerulean to Kevlin and the turquoise to Huglek and here are some chips to pay for the messengers.”“I am not your servant. It’s not even my shift. I am just helping out because of Bardre,” complained Laivo.“And to read in the sound-proof rooms. I will make it up to you, I promise. You can ransack my secret library.” Maiho dodged past her to avoid any further arguments.Bardre was sitting up in bed eating her soup. Nargre and Jetrel were sitting in chairs and everyone had their breech-clouts on, looking decorous and proper.“Jetrel says you can fix my patterns,” said Bardre cautiously.“As soon as you have recovered. Let me examine you,” replied Maiho.Bardre handed her food tray to Jetrel and sat up straighter. Maiho examined the site of the healed wound with her fingers and hummed as she extended her other senses."Any tenderness or tightness?” asked Maiho."No, but I am tired, and weak, and very hungry much of the time. When I was healed before it wasn't like this.""This time was more serious. Also looking at your scars, you were only partially healed the previous times.""Your mother said it was harder to heal my kind,” said Bardre.Maiho winced at Bardre’s word choice. ”Your relative lack of colour makes healing more difficult and means you will take longer to recover. I gave you a full healing. There won't be any scarring, and even your previous scars have faded slightly, but it will be a couple of days before you recover. You should appoint an acting Captain to deal with the council and run the Guard. I want you to take it easy for the next couple of days.““Nargre can handle the council and the guard for a few days. After those few days I will be fully recovered, correct?”“Better than you were before,” stated Maiho.“For someone who almost died I feel surprisingly good. Why didn’t your mother do this for me last time?”Maiho hesitated. “I don’t think she would have been able to.”Bardre raised her unmarked, un-patterned hand and examined it. “No, I don’t suppose she would have. After those few days’ rest, you are going to restore my patterns back to the way they were, yes?” Bardre asked.“Of course. I have already promised you that.”“I truly hope you can deliver on that promise. My life, my way of life, the life I have so painstakingly built for myself depends on it.”Maiho suppressed any doubts and gave Bardre a smile. “You will be fine. Eat your soup.”Jetrel handed back the food tray, and Bardre resumed eating Pelfra’s soup.“On an unrelated note, I am going to need your and Nargre’s co-operation on a little project I am working on,” said Maiho.“Why would we do that?” asked Nargre ready to explode again.“Because I am going to end the exile of the Shunned.” Jetrel looked confused, not understanding what she was talking about. Bardre and Nargre however, looked at her as if she had gone mad.